microsoft word wtf ertf gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated franchise disclosure document happy healthy products incorporated florida corporation south dixie highway suite boca raton florida franchiseinfo happyandhealthy.com the company offers four franchise packages for the distribution and sale of fruitfull frozen fruit bars confection bars confection items frozen desserts and other products through dedicated freezers placed in retail outlets through a retailer own freezers and via freezers mounted in carts. standard frozen wholesale franchise or standard premium all products wholesale franchise involves purchase of at least freezers and pallets cases of frozen products. grand frozen wholesale franchise or grand premium all products wholesale franchise involves purchase of at least freezers and pallets cases of frozen products. the total investment necessary to begin operation of a happy healthy products franchise is to for a standard frozen wholesale franchise to for a standard premium all products wholesale franchise to for a grand frozen wholesale franchise and to for a grand premium all products wholesale franchise. this includes to for a standard frozen wholesale franchise to for a standard premium all products wholesale franchise to for a grand frozen wholesale franchise and to for a grand premium all products wholesale franchise that must be paid to the franchisor or affiliate. this disclosure document summarizes certain provisions of your franchise agreement and other information in plain english. read this disclosure document and all accompanying agreements carefully. you must receive this disclosure document at least calendar days before you sign a binding agreement with or make any payment to the franchisor or an affiliate in connection with the proposed franchise sale. note however that no governmental agency has verified the information contained in this document. the terms of your contract will govern your franchise relationship. don rely on the disclosure document alone to understand your contract. read all of your contract carefully. show your contract and this disclosure document to an advisor like a lawyer or an accountant. buying a franchise is a complex investment. the information in this disclosure document can help you make up your mind. more information on franchising such as consumer guide to buying a franchise which can help you understand how to use this disclosure document is available from the federal trade commission. you can contact the ftc at ftc help or by writing to the ftc at pennsylvania avenue north-west washington. you can also visit the ftc home page at for additional information. call your state agency or visit your public library for other sources of information on franchising. there may also be laws on franchising in your state. ask your state agencies about them. date of issuance february april mailto franchiseinfo happyandhealthy.com http http gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated state cover page your state may have a franchise law that requires a franchisor to register or file with a state franchise administrator before offering or selling in your state. registration of franchise by state does not mean that the state recommends the franchise or has verified the information in this disclosure document. call the state franchise administrator listed in exhibit for information about the franchisor about other franchisors or about franchising in your state. many franchise agreements do not allow you to renew unconditionally after the initial term expires. you may have to sign new agreement with different terms and conditions in order to continue to operate your business. before you buy consider what rights you have to renew your franchise if any and what terms you might have to accept in order to renew. please consider the following risk factors before you buy this franchise. the franchise agreement requires the franchisee to arbitrate with the company only in florida. out of state arbitration may force you to accept less favorable settlement for disputes. it may also cost more to arbitrate with the company in florida than in your home state. the franchise agreement states that florida law governs the agreement and this law may not provide the same protections and benefits as local law. you may want to compare these laws. if you fail to purchase at least pallets cases of frozen products cases during any calendar year then we may terminate your franchise. there may be other risks concerning this franchise. we use the services of one or more franchise brokers or referral sources to assist us in selling our franchise. franchise broker or referral source is our agent and represents us not you. we pay this person a fee for selling our franchise or referring you to us. you should be sure to do your own investigation of the franchise. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated state effective dates the following states require that the disclosure document be registered or filed with the state or be exempt from registration california hawaii illinois indiana maryland michigan minnesota new york north dakota rhode island south dakota virginia washington and wisconsin. this disclosure document is registered on file or exempt from registration in the following states having franchise registration and disclosure laws with the following effective dates state effective date california february florida may georgia february illinois february indiana april maryland may michigan april minnesota february new hampshire april new york february north carolina february rhode island april south carolina february utah february virginia february washington april wisconsin february gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated in the states listed below the effective date and issuance date of this disclosure document is february.april. alabama missouri alaska montana arizona nebraska arkansas nevada colorado new jersey connecticut new mexico delaware ohio district of columbia oklahoma idaho oregon iowa pennsylvania kansas tennessee kentucky texas louisiana vermont maine west virginia massachusetts wyoming mississippi gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated addendum to the disclosure document pursuant to the michigan franchise investment law the state of michigan prohibits certain unfair provisions that are sometimes in franchise documents. if any of the following provisions are in these franchise documents the provisions are void and cannot be enforced against you. prohibition on the right of franchisee to join an association of franchisees. requirement that franchisee assent to release assignment novation waiver or estoppel which deprives franchisee of rights and protection provided in this act. this shall not preclude franchisee after entering into franchise agreement from settling any and all claims. provision that permits franchisor to terminate franchise prior to the expiration of its term except for good cause. good cause shall include the failure of the franchisee to comply with any lawful provision of the franchise agreement and to cure such failure after being given written notice thereof and reasonable opportunity which in no event need be more than days to cure such failure. provision that permits franchisor to refuse to renew franchise without fairly compensating the franchisee by repurchase or other means for the fair market value at the time of expiration of the franchisee inventory supplies equipment fixtures and furnishings. personalized materials which have no value to the franchisor and inventory supplies equipment fixtures and furnishings not reasonably required in the conduct of the franchise business are not subject to compensation. this subsection applies only if i the term of the franchise is less than years and ii the franchisee is prohibited by the franchise or other agreement from continuing to conduct substantially the same business under another trademark service mark trade name logotype advertising or other commercial symbol in the same area subsequent to the expiration of the franchise or the franchisee does not receive at least months advance notice of franchisor intent not to renew the franchise. provision that permits the franchisor to refuse to renew franchise on terms generally available to other franchisees of the same class or type under similar circumstances. this section does not require renewal provision. provision requiring in that arbitration or litigation conducted outside this state. this shall not preclude the franchisee from entering into an agreement at the time of arbitration to conduct arbitration at location outside this state. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated provision which permits franchisor to refuse to permit transfer or ownership of franchise except for good cause. this subdivision does not prevent franchisor from exercising right of first refusal to purchase the franchise. good cause shall include but is not limited to i the failure of the proposed transferee to meet the franchisor then current reasonable qualifications or standards. ii the fact that the proposed transferee is competitor of the franchisor or subfranchisor. iii the unwillingness of the proposed transferee to agree in writing to comply with all lawful obligations. iv the failure of the franchisee or proposed transferee to pay any sums owing to the franchisor to cure any default in the franchise agreement existing at the time of the proposed transfer. provision that requires the franchisee to resell to the franchisor items that are not uniquely identified with the franchisor. this subdivision does not prohibit provision that grants to franchisor right of first refusal to purchase the assets of franchise on the same terms and conditions as bona fide third party willing and able to purchase those assets nor does this subdivision prohibit provision that grants the franchisor the right to acquire the assets of franchise for the market or appraised value of such assets if the franchisee has breached the lawful provisions of the franchise agreement and has failed to cure the reach in the manner provided in subdivision. provision which permits the franchisor to directly or indirectly convey assign or otherwise transfer its obligations to fulfill contractual obligations to the franchisee unless provision has been made for providing the required contractual services. the fact that there is notice of this offering on file with the attorney general does not constitute approval recommendation or endorsement by the attorney general. any questions regarding this notice should be directed to michigan department of attorney general consumer protection division antitrust and franchise unit law building lansing michigan gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated table of contents page item the franchisor and any parents predecessors and affiliates. item business experience. item litigation. item bankruptcy. item initial fees. item other fees. item estimated initial investment. item restrictions on sources of products and services. item franchisee obligations. item financing. item franchisor assistance advertising computer systems and training. item territory. item trademarks. item patents copyrights and proprietary information. item obligation to participate in the actual operation of the franchised business. item restrictions on what the franchisee may sell. item renewal termination transfer and dispute resolution. item public figures. item financial performance representations. item outlets and franchisee information. item financial statements. item contracts. item receipts. exhibits list of state administrators franchise agreement and addenda to franchise agreement financial statements of happy healthy guaranty llc guarantee of performance of happy healthy guaranty llc list of franchisees list of former franchisees freezer agreement operations manual table of contents security agreement state addenda to franchise disclosure document agreement of mutual release confidentiality agreement and non disclosure agreement receipts gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated item the franchisor and any parents predecessors and affiliates the franchisor is happy healthy products incorporated this disclosure document refers to the franchisor as the company. to simplify the language in this disclosure document you means the entity person or persons who buy the franchise. if the franchisee will operate through a corporation or partnership you also includes the franchisee owners or partners. the company does business and intends to do business under the name happy healthy products incorporated the company principal business address is south dixie highway suite boca raton florida. the company agent for service of process if any in your state is listed on the receipt the last page of this disclosure document. the company is a corporation organized under the laws of the state of florida on february and started selling product on or about march. the company has no predecessors or affiliates that currently offer franchises in any line of business or that provide products and services to franchisees. the company has no corporate parent. the company does not own or operate any similar businesses. the company also engages in the business of selling freezers carts its proprietary brand of frozen yogurt bars and frozen dessert bars sold under the registered design trademark fruitfull collectively referred to as fruitfull fruit bars or fruitfull products and other products to its franchisees. youthe franchised business will be authorized to sell a full line of products. you also may be authorized to sell products which after testing the company determines are complementary to products and any other products authorized for sale by the company. all of the company products are called products.variety of products. as used in this fdd an product or product is any product that is designated as such by and which makes available for purchase by the franchised business either through or a supplier designated by. products may include but are not limited to non private labeled snack items such as popcorn protein bars and other items. currently the products include but are not limited to fruitfull fruit bars happy indulgence decadent dips dessert bars be happy healthy dessert bars be happy healthy snacks and baked goods. and other snacks and items not identified by the licensed marks. the company is currently considering adding ice cream as an product. you will have the choice of four franchise packages standard frozen wholesale standard premium all products wholesale grand frozen wholesale or grand premium all products wholesale. standard frozen wholesale franchisees receive two pallets cases of frozen products dedicated freezers and the assistance of one of the company independent marketing consultants for at least days. standard frozen wholesale franchisees primarily engage in placing freezers stocked with products in retail locations as well as doing special events. standard premium all products wholesale franchisees receive two pallets cases of frozen products an initial inventory of non frozen products dedicated freezers and the assistance of one of the company independent marketing consultants for at least days. standard premium all products wholesale franchisees engage in placing freezers stocked with products and non frozen products in retail locations as well as doing special events. grand frozen wholesale franchisees receive two pallets cases of frozen products dedicated freezers and the assistance of one of the company independent marketing gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated consultants for at least days. grand frozen wholesale franchisees both place and stock freezers in retail locations and may sell products at retail from a freezer cart. grand premium all products wholesale franchisees receive two pallets cases of frozen products an initial inventory of non frozen products dedicated freezers and the assistance of one of the company independent marketing consultants for at least days. grand premium all products wholesale franchisees engage in placing freezers stocked with products and non frozen products in retail locations as well as doing special events. all franchisees can purchase additional freezers and carts. freezers and carts can stock only products authorized products and other non competitive products. if the company elects to add items to its line of products these items can also be stocked in the freezers and carts and competitive products must be removed. for example if the company elects to add ice cream as an product you may stock only the company ice cream in your freezers and carts after the company makes the addition. any franchisee who purchases at least pallets cases of frozen products annually will be appointed a master distributor and then may purchase products at an additional discount. master distributors have the right to sell products to the other franchisees the company appoints them to sell to on the terms and conditions other than price determined by the company. you will have the right to purchase products from the master distributor that the company appoints to sell to you. you may make emergency purchases to fill an unexplained shortage of certain products from another franchisee with the company permission requested and granted in writing. you will typically be able to operate your business from an office in your home and keep your inventory in a local commercial cold storage facility. the market for product sales locations is retailers like colleges universities food stores delicatessens cafeterias drug stores and the like where individual frozen fruit bars and other frozen fruit confections desserts and snacks are for sale to individuals for immediate consumption on or off the premises are sold. you will compete with other sellers of frozen fruit confections desserts ice cream and snacks. the demand for products continues throughout the year although sales peak in the spring and summer months. subject to the limitations set forth in item the company other franchisees generally will be allowed to sell in your metropolitan statistical area msa so you may compete against other franchisees in your msa. franchisees will also compete with other national regional and local sellers of dessert and snack products which customarily sell through the same type of retail outlets. additionally franchisees will compete with ice cream shops street vendors route sales trucks restaurants and supermarkets. you should note that state county city municipal or local governments may have licensing laws that apply to the operation of your business and that zoning laws may prevent operation of your business at your home. you should investigate these laws and consult your counsel to determine what licenses or zoning approvals are necessary for operation of your franchise and may apply to your operation. also freezers placed on retail premises must meet certain minimum standards required by applicable laws. you are responsible for assuring that your freezers meet these standards. all freezers sold by or through the company meet national sanitation foundation standards when they are sold. the company has not conducted the type of business you will conduct. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated the company has offered franchises since august. the company has not offered franchises for any other businesses which are the same type of business that you will operate or for any other type of business. the company affiliate happy healthy guaranty llc absolutely and unconditionally guarantees the performance of our obligations under our franchise registrations that become effective on or after march in states requiring the registration of the offer and sale of our franchises. see item of this disclosure document for additional discussion on this guarantee. item business experience president linda kerr kamm mississippi kamm has been president of the company since its inception indiana general manager rona doyle mississippi doyle has been general manager since december. she was accounting administrator of the company from february to december and customer service manager of the company from october to february. compliance director leslie frazer mississippi frazer has been compliance director of the company since january. mississippi frazer was the sales marketing manager of the company from june until december and the regional operations manager at pepperidge farm incorporated from july until july. item litigation no litigation is required to be disclosed in this item. item bankruptcy no bankruptcy information is required to be disclosed in this item. item initial fees the following are the fee payments you may make to the company before opening your business. initial franchise fee. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated if you purchase a franchise regardless of the type of package the initial franchise fee island non refundable deposit of which will be credited toward the initial franchise fee must be paid aton or before the timedate that you sign the franchise agreement is executed. we refer to this date as the franchisee signing date. the balance of the initial franchise fee is due business days after the franchise agreement is executed.within one year after franchisee signing date. the company may extend the time within which the balance is due if you provide the company satisfactory evidence of your efforts to obtain financing for a substantial part of the initial investment. participates in the international franchise association vetfran program and offers qualified veterans a discount off of the initial franchise fee or up to a discount if the vetfran discount is not combined with any other discount. as a special promotion may also occasionally at its option offer to discount the initial franchise fee to candidates whom meets during certain trade shows by up to but is under no obligation to do so. may require that candidates comply with certain terms and conditions to qualify for a discount. except as described above the initial franchise fee is the same for all franchisees and is not negotiable. inventory purchases freezers and carts. as of the issuance date of this disclosure document the company charges franchisee regardless of the type of package per non dairy free fruitfull bar and per dairy based fruitfull bar per dairy free be happy healthy dessert bar and per dairy based be happy healthy dessert bar and. fruit dairy fruitfull bar and. per happy indulgence decadent dips dessert bar. you are currently entitled to a discount for prepaid orders. these prices are subject to change at any time. prices for products other than frozen fruit bars vary. the company sells frozen products in bulk packs consisting of bars per box. there are boxes to a bulk pack pallet. standard frozen wholesale franchisees must purchase from the company freezers for a sum of and pallets cases of frozen products for the sum of with prepayment discount. standard premium all products wholesale franchisees must purchase from the company freezers for a sum of pallets cases of frozen products for the sum of with prepayment discount and an initial inventory of non frozen products for the sum with prepayment discount. grand frozen wholesale franchisees must purchase from the company freezers for a sum of and pallets cases of frozen products for the sum of including prepayment discount. grand premium all products wholesale franchisees must purchase from the company freezers for a sum of pallets cases of frozen products for the sum of with prepayment discount and an initial inventory of non frozen products for the sum with prepayment discount. the prices for products are as of the issuance date of this disclosure document. these prices are subject to change. in the event that the prices change the pallet price for frozen products will change accordingly. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated at your option you may purchase a watermelon cart with freezer for an additional sum of and or a push cart for an additional sum of. shipping costs. you will not be required to pay the cost of freight for your initial purchase of products. you will be required to pay the cost of freight on the freezers and carts purchased from the company unless you pay the company the nonrefundable deposit of which will be credited toward the initial franchise fee within weeks of your receipt of this fdd and all signed paperwork is received by within days of the due date. the estimated cost of shipping is for standard frozen wholesale and standard premium all products wholesale franchises and for grand frozen wholesale and grand premium all products wholesale franchises. we will waive some or all of these initial shipping costs if you submit the deposit to us and sign the franchise agreement within a timeframe that we designate. for instance we may waive these initial shipping costs if you submit the deposit and execute the franchise agreement within approximately business days roughly calendar days after your receipt of this disclosure document or such other date as is specified on the summary pages of the franchise agreement. training fees. if you purchase a franchise regardless of the type of package you are required to attend our training program. the training fee is for standard frozen wholesale and standard premium all products wholesale franchises and for grand frozen wholesale and grand premium all products wholesale franchises costs of freezers products and carts are net of any applicable sales taxes which you must pay. the cost of shipping is included. except for price changes the costs of purchasing freezers initial inventory and training purchases are uniform for all franchisees currently purchasing and are not negotiable. the costs of purchasing freezers carts initial inventory shipping costs and training are payable within daysone year after you sign the franchise agreementthe franchisee signing date. the fees must be paid in a lump sum. item other fees name of fee amount or formula due date payable to remarks advertising fee per year february may august company you are not required to pay the advertising fee for the first six months of operation fees listed in this item are uniformly imposed except for the renewal fee. all such fees are non refundable. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated name of fee amount or formula due date payable to remarks additional marketing assistance negotiated with marketing consultants if obtained through the company negotiated marketing consultant company at your option transfer and up to if the company obtains the lead before transfer company assessed on a transfer or assignment of the franchise agreement or a controlling interest in the franchise includes one week of training. area transfer before changing to another msa company assessed if you elect to move to another msa and company consents to the move. renewal up to before renewal company set at company discretion. interest on late payments lesser of per annum or highest rate permitted by law charged per day as assessed company assessable on fees or other amounts due under the franchise agreement item estimated initial investment your estimated initial investment type of expenditure amount method of payment when due to whom payment is to be made at your option you may obtain marketing assistance in addition to the initial training provided by the company. this additional assistance must be completed within year after your initial training. the investment and expenditures that you may actually make may vary considerably from the projections shown above depending upon many factors including inflation geographical area and the capabilities of any particular management and sales team. unless otherwise noted none of these fees are refundable. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated type of expenditure amount method of payment when due to whom payment is to be made initial franchise fee standard frozen wholesale standard premium all products wholesale grand frozen wholesale grand premium all products wholesale lump sum or two installments upon signing of franchise agreement company freezers standard frozen wholesale standard premium all products wholesale grand frozen wholesale grand premium all products wholesale same same company this fee is neither financeable nor refundable. the deposit must be paid when you execute the franchise agreement the balance is due business days after this disclosure document is delivered to you normally days later.on or before the franchisee signing date the balance is due within one year after the franchisee signing date. if you fail to begin the operation of your franchise business within days months after you execute the franchise agreement and pay in fullthe effective date the company willhas the right to terminate the franchise agreement and you will forfeit this fee. you will be deemed to have begun operation of your franchise business on the date that you enter into your first freezer location agreement with an account. all amounts payable to the company now and in the future must be made by ach automated clearing house unless the company agrees otherwise in writing in advance. all freezers except chest freezers are supplied by the company. you may purchase additional freezers from the company or from third parties. standard frozen wholesale franchisee and a standard premium all products wholesale franchisee must purchase freezers a grand frozen wholesale frozen franchisee and a grand premium all products wholesale franchisee must purchase freezers. if you fail to begin the operation of your franchise business within days months after you executethe effective date of the franchise agreement and fund in full the company may terminate the franchise agreement and you will forfeit all amounts paid to the company. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated type of expenditure amount method of payment when due to whom payment is to be made chest freezers as supplier requires as supplier requires supplier opening inventory standard frozen wholesale standard premium all products wholesale grand frozen wholesale grand premium all products wholesale same same company training standard frozen wholesale standard premium all products wholesale grand frozen wholesale grand premium all products wholesale same same company office rental as landlord requires as landlord requires landlord cold storage as required as required cold storage you will need to have a chest freezer for storage of products at your place of business. the chest freezers may be purchased from any source for an estimated price of to. these prices include a discount for prepayment if payment is received before the date the inventory is shipped. prices for frozen products are subject to change. training is conducted in your msa so no extraordinary costs for lodging or food should be required. the company assumes that you will at least initially operate the franchised business from your home. if this assumption is inaccurate you should independently investigate the cost of obtaining an office for operating your franchised business. the high estimate is three months payment of rent for office space plus deposit. the company assumes that you will at least initially operate the franchised business from your home and product will be stored in your home freezer. if this assumption is inaccurate you should independently investigate the cost of gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated type of expenditure amount method of payment when due to whom payment is to be made rental automobile as dealer requires as dealer requires car dealer office equipment as supplier requires as supplier requires suppliers shipping costs standard frozen wholesale standard premium all products wholesale grand frozen wholesale grand premium all products wholesale lump sum as arranged company watermelon cart with freezer standard frozen wholesale standard premium all products wholesale lump sum as arranged company space at a cold storage facility to store your product. the high estimate is three months payment of rent for cold storage space. deposits are usually not required. the company assumes that you will at least initially operate the franchised business using an automobile which you already own. if assumption is inaccurate you should independently investigate the cost of obtaining a vehicle for operating your franchised business. pickup truck or van is preferable. if you do not own a trailer can be used to move freezers trailer kit assembly required may be purchased for as little as through local outlets. the high estimate is three months payment of a lease for a pickup truck or van plus down payment and title work. the company assumes that you will at least initially operate the franchised business using office equipment which you already own. if assumption is inaccurate you should independently investigate the cost of obtaining items such as a desk chairs phone computer printer file cabinets et cetera for operating your franchised business. you may also want to purchase a tablet computer which can cost up to. you will be required to pay the cost of freight on the freezers and carts purchased from the company unless you pay the company the nonrefundable deposit of within weeks of your receipt of this fdd and all signed paperwork is received by within days of the due date.we may but are not required to waive some or all of the initial shipping costs if you submit the deposit and sign the franchise agreement within a timeframe that we designate. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated type of expenditure amount method of payment when due to whom payment is to be made grand frozen wholesale grand premium all products wholesale insurance as incurred as incurred insurance provider push cart standard frozen wholesale standard premium all products wholesale grand frozen wholesale grand premium all products wholesale lump sum as arranged company additional funds three months as incurred as incurred suppliers state and local governments others total standard frozen wholesale standard frozen wholesale standard premium all products wholesale grand frozen wholesale and grand premium all products wholesale franchisees also have the option of purchasing a watermelon cart with freezer and or a push cart and using the cart for participation at retail sale events. you should consult with an insurance agent about the appropriate types and costs of insurance policies which would be needed to protect you against potential claims for vehicles used to conduct your franchised business and otherwise. you are required to purchase auto and business liability insurance in amounts adequate to protect against claims of up to and to name the company as an additional insured. your initial annual insurance premiums for business liability and automobile insurance are expected to cost between and. this estimates your additional start up expenses for the first months. you may incur additional miscellaneous expenses such as printing of business cards and forms use of a telephone the line is not required to be dedicated to your business and point of sales materials. you will also need a small cooler six pack size and a larger cooler to carry samples to prospective accounts. small license fees may be required by state or local governments. as all of these types of payments are made to third parties the company has no way of precisely estimating their total amount or whether any of these payments is refundable. the figures stated represent the company best estimate actual expenditures may be substantially different. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated type of expenditure amount method of payment when due to whom payment is to be made standard premium all products wholesale grand frozen wholesale grand premium all products wholesale the company does not offer either directly or indirectly financing to you for any items. item restrictions on sources of products and services pursuant to the franchise agreement you are required to purchase products from the company. the only current currently the products include but are not limited to fruitfull fruit bars happy indulgence decadent dips bars a line of frozen dessert bars be happy healthy dessert bars be happy healthy snacks and baked goods. you may however and other snacks and items not identified by the licensed marks. the company is currently considering adding ice cream as an product. you may also purchase products from a master distributor designated by the company if desired. you may also make emergency purchases of products to fill an unexpected shortage of certain products from another franchisee. if the company selects additional products the company will enter into agreements with the manufacturer. your right to purchase these products from any person or entity other than the company or a master distributor will be governed by the terms of the agreements with the manufacturer. your initial purchase of freezers must be from the company. you must also obtain training in the operation of the franchised business from the company. the company may prepare certain advertising and promotional marketing and point of sales materials that are only available from the company. if you desire to purchase these items you must do so from the company. you may acquire and sell complimentary products as long as in the company opinion the products do not compete with products. it is the company sole opinion as to what products do not compete with products. after your initial purchase the purchase of freezers and watermelon carts may be made either from the company or sources approved by the company. the company recommends that you use only. national sanitation foundation approved freezers. frozen products are manufactured under a license from the company under the company formulas and specifications. there are no other approved suppliers in which any of our officers owns an interest. for the fiscal year ended december the company total revenues from required product equipment and training purchases by franchisees were. or. of the company total revenues of. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated you or a supplier may request that a new product be approved as an product. to do so you must submit to the company a written request along with the samples the company may request. the company may require the proposed supplier to supply samples or to conduct a market test under the company control and or supervision as a condition of the company approval. the company does not issue standards and specifications to franchisees subfranchisors or approved suppliers. the company does not make criteria for approved suppliers available to franchisees. the company will evaluate the product and supplier quality and reputation as well as the supplier willingness and ability to supply franchisees before granting any approvals you request for approved suppliers. the company is not restricted in the time in which it may or may not grant approval or disapproval but estimates that approval or disapproval will be given within months. the company does not charge a fee for seeking approval of new products or suppliers. if we revoke approval of any supplier we will give you written notice. the company estimates that your required purchases described above will constitute of your total purchases of inventory to establish the franchised business and of operating expenses. no designated or approved suppliers make payments to the company because of transactions with franchisees but the company reserves the right to receive such payments in the future. except for agreements with manufacturers of products the company does not negotiate purchase arrangements with suppliers for the benefit of franchisees. the company does not provide material benefits to franchisees based on a franchisee use of designated or approved sources. there are no purchasing or distribution cooperatives. item franchisee obligations this table lists your principal obligations under the franchise and other agreements. it will help you find more detailed information about your obligations in these agreements and the other items of this disclosure document. section in franchise agreement item in disclosure document a site selection and acquisition lease. pre opening purchases leases summary pages schedule equipment purchase order items. site development and other pre opening requirements. initial and ongoing training section item. opening. fees section items gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated section in franchise agreement item in disclosure document. compliance with standards and policies operating manual sections. items. trademarks and proprietary information section.a items i warranty and customer service requirements sections.a restrictions on products services offered sections. items. territorial development sales quotas sections.aa items. ongoing product service purchases sections.a items. maintenance appearance and remodeling requirements. insurance section. item. advertising section.a items. indemnification. owner participation management staffing section. item. records reports section. inspections audits. transfer section item. renewal sections. item. post termination obligations section item. non competition covenants sections.i item. dispute resolution section item gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated section in franchise agreement item in disclosure document. other best efforts section.a item. use of name and likeness section. item financing we may extend you credit terms to you for products purchased from the company. other than this open account financing the company does not offer direct or indirect financing. the following table summarizes the financing that we may offer to you for the purchase of products from the company source of financing us. we do not work with any other lenders. amount financed equal to the amount of products purchased from the company down payment none terms payment terms may vary depending on the products purchased but for most products you get a discount on payments made within days with full payment due in days net. rate of interest if payment is not received when due you will incur interest at the lesser of per annum or highest rate permitted by law. prepayment penalty none guaranty none security required the company will require you to sign a security agreement at the time you sign the franchise agreement to secure the open account financing. under the security agreement certain of the equipment used in your franchised business will be used as collateral. copy of the security agreement is attached to the disclosure document as exhibit. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated liability upon default liquidation of collateral termination of franchise agreement all amount dues will be accelerated you will be required to pay attorneys fees and other collection costs. cross default liability none waiver of defenses none the company does not guarantee your note lease or obligation. the company has not in the past and does not currently sell assign or discount its franchisees notes contracts or other instruments but the company reserves the right to do so in the future in the company sole discretion. item franchisor assistance advertising computer systems and training except as listed below the company is not required to provide you with any assistance. pre opening obligations. the company in exchange for a training fee will make available to franchisees regardless of the type of package the services of an independent marketing consultant who will provide the franchisees with training in the operation of an products franchised business in your metropolitan statistical area msa and any surrounding areas agreed to by the company. franchise agreement section. since you are not required to operate from a specific site the company pre opening obligations do not include a conforming the premises to local ordinances and building codes or obtaining any required permits constructing remodeling or decorating the premises hiring and training employees or delivering installing items. for the standard frozen wholesale or standard premium all products wholesale franchisee the consultant will assist you in establishing contracts with accounts in your msa and any surrounding areas agreed to by the company. the accounts will be a combination of freezer accounts and conventional non freezer accounts. the amount of each type of account is determined by the franchisee for a total of accounts. franchise agreement section. for the grand frozen wholesale or grand premium all products wholesale franchisee the consultant will assist you in establishing contracts with accounts in your msa and any surrounding areas agreed to by the company. the accounts will be a combination of freezer accounts and conventional non freezer accounts. the amount of each type of account is determined by the franchisee for a total of accounts. franchise agreement section. the company will provide a standard wholesale or standard premium all products wholesale franchisee with freezers for use in selling products and a grand frozen wholesale or grand premium all products wholesale franchisee will receive. franchise agreement summary page at. the company has multiple sources of freezers which are all similar in utility value but may have minor gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated differences in dimensions features and colors. the freezers do not include locks or baskets although manufacturers and the company may occasionally add those features at no charge. the freezers are intended to be placed in retail locations in or near your msa which you anticipate will generate a high sales volume. if the purchase price of these freezers as well as the initial franchise fee and initial inventory charge is paid within business days of the date you receive this disclosure document the company will pay the cost of shipping the freezers to you. franchise agreement summary page at. the company will sell franchisees regardless of the type of package pallets cases of frozen products shipped to a frozen storage facility in or near the franchisee msa or to any other area agreed to by the company. franchisees regardless of the type of package must pay to the company at the time the franchise agreement is executed for the initial frozen product inventory. these prices include the prepayment discount. the company will pay freight charges for shipments of inventory made in the normal course of business to locations in the contiguous united states. obligations of the company during the operation of the franchised business. during the term of the franchise agreement the company is obligated by the franchise agreement to provide you with the following on the same basis as will be made available to similarly situated franchisees non exclusive right to use licensed marks in the operation of an franchised business in your msa franchise agreement section and telephonic assistance concerning products or the freezers franchise agreement section. the company will also provide you with an explanation of the company dedicated marketing plan and ideas for promoting products at retail events. the company assistance may include without limitation or obligation pricing recommendations suggestions of point of purchase promotional materials signage for dedicated freezers suggestions for sales presentations to retailers and food service company managers and the opportunity to exchange ideas and experiences with other franchisees. your success as a business person will depend primarily on your ability to obtain and service profitable accounts. no two accounts are the same. you must agree that you alone are responsible for developing and implementing your own marketing and sales programs and products and services in your msa and that the company has no obligation to you other than those expressly required by the franchise agreement franchise agreement section. the company obligations during the operation of the franchised business do not include hiring and training your employees. the company provides a quick books template along with instructions for establishing and using administrative bookkeeping accounting and inventory control procedures. the company advertising program for your product or services. will institute maintain and administer an advertising fund the advertising fund for the sole and exclusive purpose of supporting and paying for marketing programs deems necessary desirable or appropriate to promote the good will and public image of all franchises franchise agreement section. intends for all franchisees to contribute to the fund at the same rate except new franchises will not be required to contribute to the fund for the first months of operation. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated will administer and direct all marketing programs financed by the advertising fund and will have sole discretion over the creative concepts materials and endorsements used and the geographic market and media placement and allocation of the programs. the advertising fund may be used to pay the costs of preparing and producing video audio and written advertising materials administering local regional multi regional and national advertising programs including purchasing direct mail and other media advertising employing advertising public relations and media buying agencies to assist in these activities and supporting public relations market research and other advertising and marketing activities. the advertising fund may elect to furnish you with marketing advertising and promotional formats and sample materials without additional charge or provide you with multiple copies of marketing advertising and promotional materials at the direct cost of producing them. the advertising fund will be administered by and accounted for separately from other funds and will not be used to defray any of general operating expenses except for costs salaries travel expenses administrative costs and overhead may incur in activities reasonably related to the administration of the advertising fund and its marketing programs including conducting market research preparing advertising and marketing materials general production costs and collecting and accounting for contributions to the advertising fundamental may spend in any fiscal year an amount greater or less than the total contributions of all franchised locations to the advertising fund in that year and may cause the advertising fund to invest any surplus for future use by the advertising fundamental you authorize to collect for remitting to the advertising fund any advertising or promotional monies or credits offered by any supplier because of your purchases. all interest earned on monies contributed to the advertising fund will be used to pay advertising costs of the advertising fund before other assets of the advertising fund are expended. will prepare an unaudited statements of monies collected and costs incurred by the advertising fund and will be published frequently online. the advertising fund will not be audited. the advertising fund will be intended to maximize recognition of the licensed marks and all franchisees. although will endeavor to utilize the advertising fund to develop advertising and marketing materials and programs and to place advertising that will benefit all franchisees undertakes no obligation to ensure that expenditures by the advertising fund in or affecting any geographic area will be proportionate or equivalent to the contributions to the advertising fund by franchisees operating in that geographic area or that any franchised location will benefit directly or in proportion to its contribution to the advertising fund from the development of advertising and marketing materials or the placement of advertising. while intends the advertising fund to be of unlimited duration will have the right to terminate and if terminated to reinstate the advertising fund at any time after all amounts in the fund have been expended. except as described above assumes no direct or indirect liability or obligation to you regarding the maintenance direction or administration of the advertising fundamental during the company last fiscal year ending december. was spent on jumpstarts and. was spent on printed promotional material to advertise. was spent on sampling promotions to advertise. was spent on advertisement and. was spent on membership in a catalog program for advertising. nothing was spent on administrative costs bank charges. the remaining amount of the advertising fund was not spent. of the advertising fund was used for advertising that is principally for the sale of franchises. and its affiliates will not receive payments for providing goods or services to the advertising fund except as discussed above. the advertising fund is not required to spend any amount on advertising in the area or territory where you are located. has no franchisor affiliate owned outlets which contribute to the advertising fundamental gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated excess advertising fund contributions collected in any year will be used for advertising fund purposes in the next year. additionally advertising fund contributions collected in any year may be used to repay deficits incurred in a prior year. will not use advertising fund contributions for advertising that is principally a solicitation for the sale of franchises. you are not required to participate in any other advertising fundamental for additional information concerning advertising see items and. your own advertising material. the company permits franchisees to use their own advertising material. if the advertising material uses the licensed marks you must obtain the company written permission on a use by use basis. franchise agreement. advertising council advertising cooperatives. the company does not maintain a franchisee advertising council to advise the company on advertising policies. you are not required to participate in local or regional advertising cooperatives. required electronic cash register or computer systems. we require that within months afterprior to you startstarting your business and at all times thereafter during the term of the franchise agreement you have a computer or some other electronic device along with internet access through an internet access provider which will enable you to communicate via mail with from your place of business. the cost of computers varies but a computer costing less than should be sufficient. you may also wish to use a tablet computer which can cost up to. we do not require that you buy or use any type of electronic equipment or software. our only requirement is that you have the capability of sending and receiving mail messages from your place of business. there are a number of computers and other types of electronic devices on the market that will give you this capability. neither we nor our affiliates provide any such electronic equipment or provide any support or maintenance for such equipment. we do not require that you upgrade or update any electronic equipment or system. we will not have independent access to information generated or stored on your computer systems. there are no contractual limitations on our right to access information. you are not required to buy or use any electronic cash registers. operations manual. the company requires that you comply with the most up to date operations manual the operations manual. copy of the operations manual table of contents is attached to this disclosure document as exhibit. selection of the location for your business. the company expects you to initially operate your business out of your home and grants you the right to operate your business in an msa which will be designated in the franchise agreement. if you do not work from home you will not need the company approval for the site that you selection the company will not select a site for your business. you may sell products within your assigned msa and within a reasonable distance from the assigned msa provided i the company only will ship to a single cold gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated storage facility and ii you may not sell products in an msa not assigned to you if the company has granted the maximum allowable number of franchises for that msa. the company may in its sole discretion determine whether the location of your cold storage facility is unreasonably remote from your location or whether sales accounts outside your msa are unreasonably remote from the msa. in the event that you and the company cannot agree upon the location of your cold storage facility within days after you sign the franchise agreement the company may terminate the franchise agreement. unless the company agrees otherwise in writing the company will only ship to a single cold storage facility on your behalf which must be located in your msa or in surrounding areas. the company will arrange to drop ship products in quantities of at least one pallet cases to your wholesale customers. the factors that the company will consider in approving your msa are i where you currently live and ii whether the company has granted the maximum allowable number of franchises for the msa in question. your msa must be agreed upon prior to your signing the franchise agreement. if you and the company are unable to agree upon an msa within days the company will not enter into a franchise agreement with you. time period for opening. the typical length of time between the later of either signing the franchise agreement the franchisee signing date or the first payment ofin consideration for the franchise and the opening of your business is days.roughly months. factors which can affect this time period are scheduling assistance with independent marketing consultants and shipping schedules for freezers carts and products. training program. if you purchase a franchise regardless of the type of package you are required to attend our initial training program as well as our day jumpstart training program. for training the company will make available to you the services of an independent marketing consultant who will provide you with on the job assistance in the operation of your business in your msa. for the standard frozen wholesale and standard premium all products wholesale franchisee as a part of the initial training program the consultant will assist you establishing contracts with accounts in your msa and any surrounding areas agreed to by the company. the accounts will be a combination of freezer accounts and conventional non freezer accounts. the amount of each type of account is determined by the franchisee for a total of accounts. for the grand frozen wholesale and grand premium all products wholesale franchisee as a part of the initial training program the consultant will assist you establishing contracts with accounts in your msa and any surrounding areas agreed to by the company. the accounts will be a combination of freezer accounts and conventional non freezer accounts. the amount of each type of account is determined by the franchisee for a total of accounts. the following is a representative sample of assistance provided by the independent marketing consultant as a part of the initial training program updated as of december. the topics and number of hours spent on each topic will vary with each individual franchisee depending upon their previous sales and marketing experience and the emphasis they place on the various aspects of their products business and their interests in retail or wholesale selling freezer accounts or conventional accounts. this estimate does not include hours of telephone assistance prior to on the job assistance. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated training program initial training program subjects covered hours of classroom training hours of on the job training location standard frozen wholesale and standard premium all products wholesale grand frozen wholesale and grand premium all products wholesale retail selling none your msa account analysis none your msa products none your msa procedures none your msa assistance with placement of point of sale advertising materials none your msa assistance with securing freezer accounts none your msa assistance with securing conventional accounts none your msa total none you will receive access to the online operations manual and point of purchase advertising materials. the consultant will also offer you help in negotiating agreements with retailers to place the freezer at their establishments training in negotiating to have the retailers freezers stocked with products when placement of a dedicated freezer is either unauthorized or impractical training in the use of point of sale advertising materials training concerning working with neighboring franchisees gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated the company internal policies and procedures assistance in developing strong diverse account bases assistance in developing efficient cost saving routing systems assistance in incorporating and marketing new product lines assistance in dealing with industry competitors as well as competitive products assistance in various aspects of selling process from prospecting to handling objections and closing assistance in other business matters assistance in doing a sampling for a prospective customer and assistance in delivering and stocking a freezer and a conventional account. the company will attempt to schedule your initial training program to begin within days after execution of the franchise agreement to weeks after the later of either the effective date of the franchise agreement which is the date on which the franchise agreement is signed by the company president or the date on which you have paid all initial fees in full depending on your schedule and the schedule of the independent marketing consultant. you are required to attend and complete the initial training program to the company satisfaction unless otherwise agreed to by the company. you will be operating your franchised business at the start of the initial training program. jumpstart training program for the standard frozen wholesale standard premium all products wholesale grand frozen wholesale and grand premium all products wholesale franchisee the company also offers a day jumpstart training program. the following is a representative sample of assistance provided by the independent marketing consultant as a part of the jumpstart training program updated as of december. the topics and number of hours spent on each topic will vary with each individual franchisee depending upon their previous sales and marketing experience and the emphasis they place on the various aspects of their products business and their interests in retail or wholesale selling freezer accounts or conventional accounts. this estimate does not include hours of telephone assistance prior to on the job assistance. subjects covered hours of classroom training hours of on the job training location gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated standard frozen wholesale and standard premium all products wholesale grand frozen wholesale and grand premium all products wholesale retail selling none your msa account analysis none your msa products none your msa procedures none your msa assistance with placement of point of sale advertising materials none your msa assistance with securing freezer accounts none your msa assistance with securing conventional accounts none your msa total none you will receive access to the on line operations manual and point of purchase advertising materials. the consultant will also offer you help in negotiating agreements with retailers to place the freezer at their establishments training in negotiating to have the retailers freezers stocked with products when placement of a dedicated freezer is either unauthorized or impractical training in the use of point of sale advertising materials training concerning working with neighboring franchisees the company internal policies and procedures gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated assistance in developing strong diverse account bases assistance in developing efficient cost saving routing systems assistance in incorporating and marketing new product lines assistance in dealing with industry competitors as well as competitive products assistance in various aspects of selling process from prospecting to handling objections and closing assistance in other business matters assistance in doing a sampling for a prospective customer and assistance in delivering and stocking a freezer and a conventional account. the company will attempt to schedule your assistance between to months after execution of the franchise agreementyou have completed the initial training program. the company will attempt to make a marketing consultant available at a mutually convenient day period during this time. you are required to attend and complete the initial training program to the company satisfaction unless otherwise agreed to by the company. if you do not participate in the jumpstart program within year after execution of the franchise agreementyou have completed the initial training program you will forfeit this training without any refund. the following is theour head marketing consultant and hisher experience gregory gorney has over years of relevant marketing and training experience. he has been the national sales manager of the company since august. he was sales and marketing consultant at the company from september until july. he was product sales consultant at advance case parts pompano beach floruit from may to august territory manager at nassau candy fine foods riviera beach floruit from january to february sales representative at tradepro products miami floruit from august to november inside sales representative at infinity sales boca raton floruit from june to august territory manager at dynamic presence marketing south barrington illinois from november to january territory manager at main street marketing tucker georgia from january to october sales representative at lifestyles ink keene new hampshire from august to november sales consultant at suburban auto group stuart floruit from june to august and sales representative at theramedix boynton beach floruit from october to november. stacey gendal has years of relevant marketing and training experience. she has been our national sales director since may and our head sales and marketing consultant since march. she was employed by the sun sentinel from august to march where she worked in sales advertising digital marketing. she worked for ring power lift trucks from to in sales and training and was employed as a sales and operations manager at cynthia wallpaper stores from to. the company may from time to time utilize other marketing consultants who will be supervised by mrmrs. gorneygendal. the company requires that these marketing consultants have a minimum of years experience as a marketing consultant or other relevant experience. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated you and one other may attend the training. the training fee is for standard wholesale franchises and for grand wholesale franchises. you must also pay your expenses and the expenses of your personnel attending like travel living expenses compensation et cetera since the training will be conducted in your msa these expenses should be minimal. in addition to the training described above the company sponsors a periodic convention or symposium which may be our convention or another conference or meeting we designate. the main purpose of the conventions and symposiumscompany convention is to help you learn new and better ways to operate your franchised business. during the term of your franchise agreement you will be required to i attend either the convention or the symposium within years after commencing operation of your franchised business and ii attend at least convention or symposium every years thereafter. failure to comply with this requirement will result in either termination or a finean administrative charge of at the discretion of. all shipments will be withheld until such fine has been paid. there is no convention or symposium fee but you will be required to pay your expenses and the expenses of your personnel attending like travel living expenses compensation et cetera other than the conventions and symposiums and quarterly calls the company does not require additional training programs and or refresher training programs. item territory you will not receive an exclusive territory. you may face competition from other franchisees from outlets that we own or from other channels of distribution or competitive brands that we control. you are granted the right to operate a franchise within an msa designated by company. your msa will be described in schedule of the franchise agreement. the company has the right to require that your franchise be relocated from the cold storage facility in your msa from which it is then currently operated if in the company sole opinion such location in your msa is unreasonable such as when the location does not permit timely service to important accounts in your msa. other than that right the company does not approve the operation of your franchise from any particular cold storage facility. the company will not grant more than franchise for every one hundred thousand residents or increment of that amount in your msa but the company may grant additional franchise in your msa for each franchisee that has been in business for more than year and that has not purchased at least four pallets cases of frozen products during the preceding months. your msa will be described in schedule of the franchise agreement. if you live outside an msa the company will treat you as a resident of the closest msa or describe an area on schedule of your franchise agreement that will give you the same competitive benefits as an msa. there are no other circumstances that would permit us to modify your territorial rights. the company will not sell bulk packs of fruitfull consisting of frozen fruit bars in your msa to anyone other than the company franchisees. the company can sell fruitfull frozen fruit bars or frozen dairy bars in other size packages or any other product through other channels of distribution within and outside your msa. the company may establish a company owned outlet or other channel of distribution using the licensed marks. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated you may not sell products to any other distributor of frozen desserts or snack products without our prior written approval which may be withheld for any reason. you may sell products within your assigned msa. you may also sell products in an adjoining msa one that physically touches your own within a reasonable distance from the assigned msa provided i the company only will ship to a single cold storage facility and ii you may not sell products in an msa not assigned to you if has granted the maximum allowable number of franchises for that msa. the company may in its sole discretion determine whether the location of your cold storage facility is unreasonable or whether sales accounts outside your msa are unreasonably remote from the msa. for accounts outside your msa a reasonable distance is typically defined as a two hour radius one hour in each direction from your home but company may in its sole discretion determine that a farther distance may be reasonable under the circumstances. in the event that the company obtains a prospective franchisee in an area outside of your msa that you were servicing you will have the option to either relinquish your accounts to that franchisee or purchase an additional franchise under the company then current terms and conditions. if you purchased the additional franchise you would be entitled to another cold storage delivery option if you so desired. you may sell products using a cart which can be moved from location to location to take advantage of sales opportunities at special events within your assigned msa and within a reasonable distance from the assigned msa provided you may not sell products in an msa not assigned to you if has granted the maximum allowable number of franchises for that msa. the company may consider granting you the right to establish additional franchises under further franchise agreements which will require additional franchise fees if you are in compliance with the franchise agreement and you propose to establish a franchise in an additional msa which the company approves but the company has no obligation to do so. the company may consider granting you the right to relocate your franchise to a different msa if you are in compliance with the franchise agreement and you propose to establish a franchise in an additional msa for which the company has not granted the maximum allowable number of franchises but the company has no obligation to do so. the franchise agreement grants you no options rights of first refusal or similar rights to acquire additional franchises within your msa or contiguous territories. the company or its affiliates have not established but may establish other franchisees or company owned outlets or another channels of distribution selling or leasing similar products or services under a different trademark but have no present plans to do so. although the company and its affiliates have not done so the company and its affiliates may sell products other than fruitfull bulk packs consisting of bars per box under the licensed marks within or outside of your msa through any other method of distribution including sales through such channels of distribution as the internet catalog sales telemarketing or other direct marketing sales together alternative distribution channels. you may not use alternative distribution channels to make sales outside or inside your msa and you will receive no compensation for the company or its affiliates sales through alternative distribution channels. as an example you may not sell products online without our prior permission. the company and its affiliates can use alternative channels of distribution to make sales within your msa of products or services under different trademarks than the licensed marks but the company and its affiliates have not yet made any sales of this type. the company prohibits its franchisees from soliciting sales from existing accounts of another franchisee. the company also prohibits its franchisees from soliciting any actively pursued accounts of another franchisee provided that such franchisee is following the guidelines for actively pursuing accounts as stipulated in the company operation manual. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated if you fail to purchase at least pallets cases of frozen products from the company or an authorized master distributor during any calendar year following the year in which your franchise agreement is executed the company can terminate your franchise. item trademarks under the franchise agreement the company grants you the right to operate a business under the licensed marks which may be identified as an authorized franchisee or distributor of fruitfull brand products. fruitfull and happy and healthy are the company principal marks. the fruitfull design logo is a registered trademark registration number registration date october on the principal register of the united states patent and trademark office uspto with the company as registrant. the mark fruitfull is a registered trademark registration number registration date march on the principal register of the uspto with the company as registrant. the company will timely file all section and affidavits for these principal marks. we do not have a federal registration for happy and healthy. therefore our trademark does not have many legal benefits and rights as a federally registered trademark. if our trademark is challenged you may have to change to an alternative trademark which may increase your expenses. happy and healthy is a trademark of the company and has been in continuous and consistent use for over twenty years on frozen novelties such as frozen fruit bars frozen yogurt and ice cream. this is a trademark that the company has common law and federal trademark rights to pursuant to the united states trademark laws. we do not have a federal registration for the principal trademark happy and healthy. therefore this trademark does not have many legal benefits and rights as a federally registered trademark. if the right to use this trademark is challenged you may have to change to an alternative trademark which may increase your expenses. there are no currently effective material determinations of the uspto trademark trial and appeal board the trademark administrator of any state or any court involving the principal mark nor are there any pending infringement opposition or cancellation actions or pending material litigation involving the principal marks. there are no agreements currently in effect which significantly limit the company rights to use or license the use of the licensed marks in a manner material to the franchise. the company need not protect your right to use the licensed marks and need not protect you against claims of infringement or unfair competition arising out of your use of the principal marks. the franchise agreement does not require the company to take any action against infringements or users. as owner of the licensed marks the company has the exclusive right to control administrative proceedings or litigation concerning the licensed marks. the franchise agreement does not require the company to participate in your defense or indemnify you for expenses or damages if you are a party to an administrative or judicial proceeding involving a trademark licensed by the company to you and the proceeding is resolved unfavorably to you. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated you may not without the company prior written approval transfer any freezer to anyone that is not an franchisee until you have removed all licensed marks decals and other marks associated with the company from the freezer. if you fail to do so you will need to pay the company for each violation plus attorneys fees. the company does not actually know of either superior prior rights or infringing uses that could materially affect your use of the principal marks in the state in which the franchised business is to be located. item patents copyrights and proprietary information patents. the company does not own any patents or pending patents that are material to the franchise. copyrights. the company claims common law copyright protection in the company advertising material the copyrights. the company has not filed for registration of any of these copyrights with the united states library of congressional there are no material determinations of the library of congress or any court regarding these copyrights. there are no agreements currently in effect which limit the use of these copyrights. the company has no obligations to you to protect the copyrights. the company is not obligated to take action when notified of an infringement of the copyrights. the company is not required to participate in defending you or indemnifying you for expenses or damages in a proceeding involving the copyrights. the company has the right to control litigation involving the copyrights. your obligation to notify of any infringement claims is discretionary. the franchise agreement imposes no requirements upon you to modify or discontinue use of the subject matter covered by the copyright. the company does not know of any infringement that could materially affect you regarding the copyrights. confidential information. the company claims that certain of its methods procedures and techniques are trade secrets and confidential information including the formulations of all products. upon termination of the franchise agreement you must cease to use in advertising or in any other manner any methods procedures or techniques in which the company has proprietary rights. item obligation to participate in the actual operation of the franchised business the franchise agreement requires that you or a manager employee employed by you and approved by us to be personally involved with the operation of the franchised business. each gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated manager employee employed by you will be required to sign a confidentiality agreement. the confidentiality agreement is binding upon each person that signs it and their heirs executors successors and assigns. there are no specific obligations to owners partners spouses under the confidentiality agreement. however we will not approve your manager employee unless he or she executes a confidentiality agreement in a form we approve. copy of the confidentiality agreement is attached to the disclosure document as exhibit. other than signing the confidentiality agreement we place no limitation on whom you can hire as a manager employee. your manager employee does not need to have an equity interest in your franchise. the company will require you to sign a security agreement at the time you sign the franchise agreement to secure open account financing. the security agreement grants to us a security interest in any freezers that you have purchased from us. copy of the security agreement is attached to the disclosure document as exhibit. we do not require anyone to sign a personal guaranty. there are non compete provisions in the franchise agreement that apply to you but are no obligations for any third person such as a manager employee owner partner or spouses to sign a non compete agreement. item restrictions on what the franchisee may sell the franchised business must offer and sell products. as described in item an product is any product that is designated as such by and which makes available for purchase by the franchised business either through or a supplier designated by. products may include but are not limited to non private labeled snack items such as popcorn protein bars or other items. currently the products include but are not limited to fruitfull fruit bars happy indulgence decadent dips dessert bars be happy healthy dessert bars and be happy healthy snacks and baked goods. the company is currently considering adding ice cream as an product. during the term of your franchise agreement you may not without the company prior written approval offer or sell through the franchised business or otherwise any products which compete directly or indirectly with products offered to you by the company. an product is any product the company designates as an product and makes available for your purchase. current products are fruitfull fruit bars happy indulgence decadent dips dessert bars be happy healthy dessert bars be happy healthy snacks and baked goods. at least of all products contained in franchisee freezers must at all times be products. the franchise agreement imposes no other obligations on you to sell only goods or services approved by the company. the franchise agreement imposes no obligations on you to sell all goods and services required by the company. the franchise agreement gives the company the right to designate products and imposes no restrictions on the company right to designate or change products. the franchise is solely for the purpose of opening and servicing new accounts for products. thus you may not solicit sales from any account which is an existing account of another authorized seller products fruit bars or an account that another authorized seller of products fruit bars is actively pursuing provided that authorized seller is following the guidelines for actively pursuing accounts as stipulated in the company operations manual. finally you may not sell products to any other distributor of frozen desserts ice cream or snack products without the company prior written approval which may be withheld for any reason. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated you may sell products within your assigned msa and within a reasonable distance from the assigned msa provided i the company only will ship to a single cold storage facility and ii you may not sell products in an msa not assigned to you if the company has granted the maximum allowable number of franchises for that msa. the company may in its sole discretion determine whether the location of your cold storage facility is unreasonable or whether sales accounts outside your msa are unreasonably remote from the msa. unless the company agrees otherwise in writing the company will only ship to a single cold storage facility on your behalf which must be located in your msa or in surrounding areas. the company will arrange to drop ship products in quantities of at least one pallet cases to your wholesale customers. item renewal termination transfer and dispute resolution the franchise relationship this table lists certain important provisions of the franchise and related agreements. you should read these provisions in the agreements attached to this disclosure document. provision section in franchise agreement summary a term of the agreement.a ten years from date your franchise agreement is executed by the company. renewal or extension of the term. if you comply with the franchise agreement and have purchased at least four pallets cases of frozen products per year during the two years before expiration you may extend for an additional five years one year for additional renewals. requirements for franchisee to renew or extend.a sign a new agreement six months before expiration sign general release and pay renewal fee. you may be asked to sign a contract with materially different terms and conditions than your original agreement but your msa will remain the same. termination by franchisee none rights as provided by law. termination by company without cause none not applicable. termination by company with cause the company can terminate on notice and without cure for certain reasons. cause defined curable defaults fail to pay financial obligations or comply with insurance obligations and cure within five days breach the franchise agreement and cure within thirty days. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated provision section in franchise agreement summary. cause defined defaults which cannot be cured unapproved use of marks diversion of prospective franchisee attempt to sell business within ninety days of company sales show or sales promotion in the msa without company approval bankruptcy insolvency dissolution or termination of franchisee sales of more than of assets defaults in a month period failure to transfer within months after death or disability abandonment or failure to operate business subfranchising subdistributing or subdividing your rights without company approval sell products to former franchisees of the company other activities detrimental to the company or the licensed marks failure to purchase at least pallets of product cases attempt to directly contact any of the company freight companies vendors or national accounts sell or attempt to sell to another franchisee accounts failure to attend i either the convention or the symposium within years after starting your franchise and ii at least convention or symposium every years after that failure to begin the operation of the franchise business within days after the execution of the franchise agreement months after the franchisee signing date or if franchisee offers or sells through the franchised business any products that compete directly or indirectly with products. i franchisee obligations on termination non renewal cease to operate and represent connection pay sums due and damages incurred return any confidential materials and trade secrets provide list of customers and employees terminate transfer or assign telephone numbers yellow pages listings name registrations and business licenses return all materials bearing the licensed marks cease use of all indicia of origin. assignment of contract by the company.a the company may sell or assign. transfer by franchisees defined. sale assignment or transfer of your interest in the franchise agreement in you or in the franchised business. company approval of transfer by franchisee. company can withhold approval for good business reasons. such reasons include the failure of the proposed transferee to meet the franchisor then current reasonable qualifications or standards the fact that the proposed transferee is a competitor of gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated provision section in franchise agreement summary the company the unwillingness of the proposed transferee to agree in writing to comply with all lawful obligations the failure of you or proposed transferee to pay any sums owing to the company to cure any default in the franchise agreement existing at the time of the proposed transfer. conditions for company approval of transfer. a you must give the company notice of transfer with complete description of all terms and fees of the proposed transfer or assignment including the proposed transferee name address financial qualifications and previous five years business experience. the transferee must pay the company a transfer fee but no initial franchise fee and upon the transferee executing a general release for the benefit of the company and its employees agents and representatives. the transferee must sign the company then current form of franchise agreement. you must pay the company a transfer fee and training fee which will be between and if the company obtained the lead for such transfer. the company right of first refusal to acquire franchisee business. exercisable within thirty days after notice. company option to purchase franchisee business none not applicable. death or disability of franchisee. the franchised business must be transferred to an approved person in months. non competition covenants during the term of the franchise. no offering or selling products which compete directly with products. non competition covenants after the franchise is terminated or expires. prohibits owning interests nor engaging in business which sell products that compete with products you sold in your msa and in surrounding areas where you conducted business for one yeartwo years after termination or expiration. modification of the agreement none not applicable. integration merger. the franchise agreement and its schedules and exhibits is the entire agreement of the parties. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated provision section in franchise agreement summary clause only the terms of the franchise agreement are binding subject to state law. any representations or promises outside of the disclosure document and franchise agreement may not be enforceable. notwithstanding the foregoing nothing in the franchise agreement is intended to disclaim the express representations made in this disclosure document or its attachments or addenda. dispute resolution by arbitration or mediation except for certain claims all disputes must be arbitrated in palm beach county florida subject to state law. choice of forum none subject to applicable state law providing to the contrary this provision is not applicable. choice of law subject to applicable state law providing to the contrary florida law shall govern. remainder of page left blank intentionally gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated item public figures the company does not use any public figure to promote its franchise. item financial performance representations the ftc franchise rule permits a franchisor to provide information about the actual or potential financial performance of its franchised and or franchisor owned outlets if there is a reasonable basis for the information and if the information is included in the disclosure document. financial performance information that differs from that included in item may be given only if a franchisor provides the actual records of an existing outlet you are considering buying or a franchisor supplements the information provided in this item for example by providing information about possible performance at a particular location or under particular circumstances. we do not make any representations about a franchisee future financial performance or the past financial performance of company owned or franchised outlets. we also do not authorize our employees or representatives to make any such representations either orally or in writing. if you are purchasing an existing outlet however we may provide you with the actual records of that outlet. if you receive any other financial performance information or projections of your future income you should report it to the franchisor management by contacting linda kerr kamm located at. dixie highway suite boca raton floruit the federal trade commission and the appropriate state regulatory agencies. remainder of page left blank intentionally gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated item outlets and franchisee information table number systemwide outlet summary for years to column outlet type column year column outlets at the start of the year column outlets at the end of the year column net change franchised company owned total outlets table number transfers of outlets from franchisees to new owners other than the franchisor for years to column state column year column number of transfers ohio total table number status of franchised outlets for years to gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated column state column year column outlets at start of year column outlets opened column terminations column non renewals column reacquired by franchisor column ceased operations other reasons column outlets at end of the year alabama arizona california colorado connecticut florida georgia idaho illinois indiana iowa kentucky maryland massachusetts michigan gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated column state column year column outlets at start of year column outlets opened column terminations column non renewals column reacquired by franchisor column ceased operations other reasons column outlets at end of the year minnesota missouri nebraska nevada new jersey new mexico new york north carolina ohio oklahoma pennsylvania rhode island tennessee texas gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated column state column year column outlets at start of year column outlets opened column terminations column non renewals column reacquired by franchisor column ceased operations other reasons column outlets at end of the year utah virginia washington total franchisee who was previously located at pine wood waterloo illinois relocated to boschert drive street peters missouri although this franchisee did not cease operations the franchisee is reflected in the column figures above. column state column year column outlets at start of year column outlets opened column terminations column non renewals column reacquired by franchisor column ceased operations other reasons column outlets at end of the year alabama arizona california colorado connecticut florida georgia gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated column state column year column outlets at start of year column outlets opened column terminations column non renewals column reacquired by franchisor column ceased operations other reasons column outlets at end of the year idaho illinois indiana iowa kentucky maryland massachusetts michigan minnesota nebraska nevada new jersey new mexico new york gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated column state column year column outlets at start of year column outlets opened column terminations column non renewals column reacquired by franchisor column ceased operations other reasons column outlets at end of the year north carolina ohio oklahoma pennsylvania rhode island tennessee texas utah virginia washington total gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated table number status of company owned outlets for years to column state column year column outlets at start of year column outlets opened column outlets reacquired from franchisees column outlets closed column outlets sold to franchisees column outlets at end of the year total remainder of page left blank intentionally gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated table number projected openings as of december column state column franchise agreements signed but outlet not opened column projected new franchised outlet in the next fiscal year column projected new company owned outlet in the next fiscal year alabama alaska arizona arkansas california colorado connecticut delaware district of columbia florida georgia hawaii idaho illinois indiana iowa kansas kentucky louisiana maine maryland massachusetts michigan mississippi missouri minnesota nebraska nevada new hampshire new jersey new mexico new york north carolina north dakota ohio oklahoma oregon pennsylvania gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated column state column franchise agreements signed but outlet not opened column projected new franchised outlet in the next fiscal year column projected new company owned outlet in the next fiscal year rhode island south carolina south dakota tennessee texas utah vermont virginia washington west virginia wisconsin wyoming us virgin islands total attached as exhibit is a list of the names of all franchisees and their addresses and telephone number of all their units as of december. attached as exhibit is a list of the name city and state and the current business telephone number or if unknown the last known home telephone number of every franchisee who in the company most recent full fiscal year end had a unit terminated by the company had a unit not renewed by the company otherwise voluntary or involuntarily ceased to do business under the franchise agreement or has not communicated with the company within weeks of the issuance date of this disclosure document. if you buy this franchise your contact information may be disclosed to other buyers when you leave the franchise system. during the last three fiscal years the company has not signed confidentiality clauses with any current or former franchisees. there are no trademark specific franchisee organizations associated with the franchise system being offered which the company has created sponsored or endorsed. item financial statements happy healthy guaranty llc absolutely and unconditionally guarantees the performance of our obligations under our franchise registrations that became effective on or after march or will become effective in the future in states requiring the registration of the offer and sale of our franchises. the audited financial statements and independent auditors report of our affiliate happy healthy guaranty llc as of and for the year ended december and as of and for the years ended december and are included in this disclosure document at exhibit. the instrument of guaranty is included in exhibit. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated item contracts the following agreements are attached to this disclosure document. exhibit agreement franchise agreement and riders freezer agreement security agreement item receipts you will find copies of a detachable receipt in exhibit at the very end of this disclosure document. remainder of page left blank intentionally gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated exhibit state administrators and agents for service of process state state administrator agent address california commissioner of business oversight california department of business oversight west th street suite los angeles california hawaii state administrator commissioner of securities department of commerce and consumer affairs business registration division securities compliance branch merchant street room honolulu hi illinois illinois attorney general south second street springfield illinois indiana state administrator indiana securities commissioner securities division west washington street room east indianapolis in indiana agent indiana secretary of state west washington street room east indianapolis in maryland state administrator office of the attorney general division of securities street paul place baltimore medicinae doctor maryland agent maryland securities commissioner street paul place baltimore medicinae doctor michigan michigan department of attorney general consumer protection division. mennen williams building street floor west ottawa street lansing michigan minnesota commissioner of commerce minnesota department of commerce th place east suite street paul minnesota new york state administrator office of the new york state attorney general investor protection bureau franchise section broadway road liberty street th floor new york new york phone fax new york agent new york department of state one commerce plaza washington avenue th floor albany new york north dakota securities commissioner north dakota securities department east boulevard avenue state capitol fifth floor department bismarck north dakota rhode island director department of business regulation securities division pontiac avenue john. pastore complex building cranston rhode island south dakota department of labor and regulation division of insurance securities regulation. euclid suite pierre south dakota virginia state administrator state corporation commission division of securities and retail franchising east main street th floor richmond virginia virginia agent clerk of the state corporation commission east main street street floor richmond virginia washington department of financial institutions securities division israel road south-west tumwater washington gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated state state administrator agent address wisconsin commissioner of securities department of financial institutions division of securities. washington avenue suite madison yards way north tower madison wisconsin gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated exhibit franchise agreement and riders gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated happy healthy products incorporated franchise agreement copyright happy healthy products incorporated gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated i happy healthy products incorporated franchise agreement franchisee signing date effective date date summary pages these pages summarize the attached agreement the details of which shall control in the event of any conflict. franchisee name address telephone. name and number of franchisee msa. type of franchise circle one standard frozen wholesale standard premium all products wholesale grand frozen wholesale grand premium all products wholesale. initial franchise fee. amount due upon signing agreementdue upon franchisee signing date. franchisee shall purchase freezers pallets cases of frozen products initial inventory and carts by. date balance of initial franchise fee less plus payments for freezers initial inventory carts and training is due. date deposit of is due to avoid freight charges on freezers and carts. expiration date of franchise agreement. franchisee agent to receive service of process name address gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated ii gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated iii table of contents. recitals. grant of franchise. term of franchise. fees. location assistance. sales and marketing. supplies and information. warranties. franchisee obligations. transfer. termination. obligations following termination or nonrenewal. disclaimers. remedies. governing law. acknowledgments. schedule franchisee metropolitan statistical area msa schedule equipment purchase order schedule personal release schedule state addenda if applicable schedule sba addendum gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated happy healthy products incorporated franchise agreement this agreement agreement is entered into as of by and between happy healthy products incorporated a florida corporation with its principal place of business at south dixie highway suite boca raton florida and franchisee. recitals a franchisee has investigated several business opportunities and has decided to acquire a franchise from for the purpose of engaging in the business of distributing frozen fruit confection items frozen snacks and desserts and other designated items products or products pursuant to the freezer marketing program and direct sales program developed by for the sale of products to accounts not already selling products. as used in this agreement an product or product is any product that is designated as such by and which makes available for purchase by franchisee. either through or a supplier designated by. products may include but are not limited to non private labeled snack items such as popcorn protein bars and other items. is willing on the terms described below to provide franchisees with the opportunity to participate in its marketing programs and its distribution network. grant of franchise a subject to all the terms and conditions herein grants to franchisee the non exclusive right to use i the trademark happy healthy ii the registered trademark fruitfull fruitfull iii the registered trademark be happy healthy iv the registered trademark happy indulgence and such other marks as may hereafter develop for franchisee use collectively licensed marks and all the other benefits of this agreement as set forth herein in the operation of a franchised business in the metropolitan statistical area msa designated on schedule hereafter franchisee msa. agrees not to grant any more than one franchise for every one hundred thousand residents or increment of that amount in franchisee msa. however may grant one additional franchise in franchisee msa for each franchisee which has been in business for more than one year and which has not purchased at least four pallets cases of frozen products during the preceding twelve months. agrees not to sell bulk packs of fruitfull frozen fruit bars in franchisee msa to anyone other than to franchisees. bulk pack consists of twenty four frozen fruit bars or frozen dairy bars. this section does not restrict from selling fruitfull frozen fruit bars or frozen dairy bars in other size packages or any other products either through other channels of distribution in or outside franchisee msa. franchisee may sell products within franchisee assigned msa and within a reasonable distance from the assigned msa provided. only will ship to a single cold storage facility gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated franchisee may not sell products in an msa not assigned to franchisee if has granted the maximum allowable number of franchises for that msa. franchisee may not sell products in an msa other than its own or other than an immediately physically adjoining msa or a distance outside of the assigned msa determined to be unreasonable by. may in its sole discretion determine whether the location of franchisee cold storage facility is unreasonable or whether sales accounts outside franchisee msa are unreasonably remote from the msa and. in the event that a prospective franchisee desires to obtain a franchise in an msa that franchisee is servicing other than franchisee own or physically adjoining franchisee will have the option to either relinquish the accounts in that msa or purchase a franchise for that msa under then current terms and conditions. will arrange to drop ship products in quantities of at least one pallet cases to franchisee wholesale customers if franchisee obtains prior approval from. term of franchise a unless franchisee shall have executed successor franchise agreement on the form of franchise agreement then used by for similarly situated franchisees this agreement shall expire on the tenth anniversary of its effective date the expiration date. the effective date is the date this agreement is executed by the president of. if franchisee has complied with this agreement throughout its term and has purchased no fewer than four pallets cases of frozen products per year during the two years preceding the expiration date provided franchisee executes the form of successor franchise agreement tendered to franchisee by at least six months before the expiration date shall enter into a successor franchise agreement with franchisee for a five year term for the first renewal period subsequent renewals are for one year. the successor franchise agreement may differ materially in its terms from this agreement. franchisee renewal rights may be conditioned upon franchisee execution of a general release in the form submitted by and upon franchisee paying a renewal administration fee of up to one thousand dollars. if intends not to offer franchisee a successor franchise agreement shall give franchisee at least one hundred eighty days notice of nonrenewal before the expiration date. the term of this agreement will be automatically extended if necessary to give franchisee a full one hundred eighty days notice of nonrenewal. fees a as a condition of becoming a franchisee franchisee has agreed to pay the nonrefundable initial franchise fee specified on the summary pages. if the amount specified in section of the summary pages has not been received by by the later of fifteen business days from the date franchisee received a franchise disclosure document describing this franchise or the date specified in section of the summary pages as well as all fees due to for freezers products and as applicable carts is not received by within one year after franchisee signing date may at its option terminate this agreement without waiving its right to the initial franchise fee and other amounts already paid. franchisee is required to pay the cost of freight on all freezers and carts purchased from gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated unless franchisee pays the full initial franchise fee full cost of the freezer and the full cost of the initial inventory within fifteen business days after provides franchisee with a franchise disclosure document. if franchisee fails to begin the operation of its franchise business within ninetysix daysmonths after the execution ofeffective date may terminate the franchise agreement the franchise agreement will terminate and you and franchisee will forfeit all amounts paid to. franchisee will be deemed to have begun operation of the franchise business on the date that franchisee enters into its first freezer location agreement with an account. shall institute maintain and administer an advertising fund the advertising fund for the sole and exclusive purpose of supporting and paying for marketing programs deems necessary desirable or appropriate to promote the good will and public image of the licensed marks and all franchises. franchisee shall be required to contribute to the advertising fund an amount of six hundred dollars per year the advertising fund contributions provided however franchisee shall not be required to make any advertising fund contributions for the first six months that franchisee operates its franchised business. franchisee shall be required to make the advertising fund contributions for a particular year as follows two hundred dollars on each of february may and august. shall have the right to increase the amount of franchisee advertising fund contribution upon sixty days prior written notice but in no event will the amount of the advertising fund contribution exceed one hundred fifty dollars per month per year which may be adjusted for inflation. location assistance will make available to franchisee the services of an independent marketing consultant in consideration of the training fee specified on the summary pages. the marketing consultant shall provide franchisee with on the job training in the operation of an franchised business in franchisee msa and any surrounding areas agreed to by. for the standard frozen wholesale and standard premium all products wholesale franchisee the consultant will assist you establishing contracts with accounts in your msa and any surrounding areas agreed to by. the accounts will be a combination of freezer accounts and conventional non freezer accounts. the amount of each type of account is determined by the franchisee for a total of accounts. for the grand wholesale and grand premium all products wholesale franchisee the consultant will assist you in establishing contracts with accounts in your msa and any surrounding areas agreed to by the company. the accounts will be a combination of freezer accounts and conventional non freezer accounts. the amount of each type of account is determined by the franchisee for a total of accounts. once the initial accounts have been established franchisee alone shall be responsible for servicing the accounts relocating freezers whenever business so warrants and establishing new accounts. in addition franchisee shall take such action as may be required by or by franchisee freezer location agreement with the account serviced by franchisee to remove or relocate freezers or other assets of the franchise business from such account retail establishment upon notice by or such account at franchisee sole cost and expense. this agreement in no way precludes franchisee from hiring or retaining sales personnel or independent contractors including the independent marketing consultant which helped franchisee to establish his business so long as such relationships are undertaken at no expense to. sales and marketing gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated a franchisee understands that will provide franchisee with an explanation of its dedicated freezer marketing plan and ideas for promoting products at retail events. moreover will provide franchisee with the location and marketing assistance prescribed in section above. assistance may include without limitation or obligation pricing recommendations suggestions of point of purchase promotional materials signage for dedicated freezers suggestions for sales presentations to retailers and food service company managers and the opportunity to exchange ideas and experiences with other franchisees. franchisee success as a business person will depend primarily on franchisee ability to obtain and service profitable accounts. no two accounts are the same. franchisee agrees that the franchisee alone is responsible for developing and implementing his or her own marketing and sales programs in the franchisee msa and that has no obligation to franchisee other than those expressly prescribed by this agreement. has granted franchisee this franchise solely for the purpose of opening and servicing new accounts for products. thus franchisee may not solicit sales from any account which is an existing account of another authorized seller of products or an account that another authorized seller of products is actively pursuing provided that authorized seller is following the guidelines for actively pursuing accounts as stipulated in operations manual. finally franchisee may not sell products to any other distributor of frozen desserts or snack products without prior written approval which may be withheld for any reason. except as is otherwise expressly set forth in this agreement does not restrict franchisee or any other franchisee in the accounts upon which they may call. franchisee is an independent contractor and subject to the terms of this agreement shall have complete control over the operations of franchisee business. will direct all marketing programs financed by the advertising fund and will have sole discretion over the creative concepts materials and endorsements used and the geographic market and media placement and allocation of the programs. the advertising fund may be used to pay the costs of preparing and producing video audio and written advertising materials administering local regional multi regional and national advertising programs including without limitation purchasing direct mail and other media advertising employing advertising public relations and media buying agencies to assist in these activities and supporting public relations market research and other advertising and marketing activities. the advertising fund may elect to furnish franchisee with marketing advertising and promotional formats and sample materials without additional charge or provide franchisee with multiple copies of marketing advertising and promotional materials at the direct cost of producing them. the advertising fund will be accounted for separately from other funds and will not be used to defray any of general operating expenses except for costs salaries travel expenses administrative costs and overhead may incur in activities reasonably related to the administration of the advertising fund and its marketing programs including without limitation conducting market research preparing advertising and marketing materials general production costs and collecting and accounting for contributions to the advertising fundamental may spend in any fiscal year an amount greater or less than the total contributions of all franchised locations to the advertising fund in that year and may cause the advertising fund to invest any surplus for future use by the advertising fundamental franchisee authorizes to collect for remission to the advertising fund any advertising or promotional monies or credits offered by any supplier based upon franchisee purchases. all interest earned on monies contributed to the advertising fund will be used to pay advertising costs of the advertising fund before other assets of the advertising fund are expended. will prepare an annual statement of monies collected and costs incurred by the advertising fund and will furnish it to franchisee upon written request. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated franchisee agrees that the advertising fund will be intended to maximize recognition of the licensed marks and all franchisees. although will endeavor to utilize the advertising fund to develop advertising and marketing materials and programs and to place advertising that will benefit all franchisees undertakes no obligation to ensure that expenditures by the advertising fund in or affecting any geographic area will be proportionate or equivalent to the contributions to the advertising fund by franchisees operating in that geographic area or that any franchised location will benefit directly or in proportion to its contribution to the advertising fund from the development of advertising and marketing materials or the placement of advertising. although intends the advertising fund to be of unlimited duration will have the right to terminate and if terminated to reinstate the advertising fund at any time after all amounts in the fund have been expended. except as expressly provided in this section assumes no direct or indirect liability or obligation to franchisee with respect to the maintenance direction or administration of the advertising fundamental supplies and information a will provide franchisee a limited supply of advertising and sales materials for use in promoting the products. may charge a fee for quantities which exceed its current standard allotment for franchisees. will provide form freezer location agreements to franchisee if franchisee is a wholesale franchise for use when placing freezers on the premises of third parties. may provide telephonic assistance to the franchisee on matters relating to products or the freezers. also may serve as a clearing house for questions and information between and among various franchisees. shall permit franchisee access to its confidential operations manual the manual which is online and franchisee shall comply with all provisions of such manual. from time to time during the term of this agreement may communicate to the franchisee mandatory and suggested standards methods procedures and specifications applicable to the system and information relative to other obligations of franchisee hereunder and to the operation of the franchised business. such communications may be made through such confidential manual as and when available or through communications. all intellectual property rights to the manual shall at all times remain the exclusive property of and franchisee shall have no rights to it including access rights in any event upon termination or expiration of this agreement for any reason whatsoever. franchisee shall not at any time download copy duplicate record or otherwise reproduce or transcribe the manual or any part of this agreement or any of the forms supplied by hereunder without prior written consent. shall have the right to add to modify withdraw from or otherwise revise the provisions of the manual from time to time. the provisions of the manual as revised from time to time and the mandatory standards methods procedures and specifications applicable to the system and such revisions made from time to time by shall constitute provisions of this agreement and franchisee shall comply with same as if fully set forth herein. franchisee acknowledges that certain information relating to the operation of the franchised business including without limitation the standards methods procedures and specifications of the system and the contents of the manual is derived from information disclosed to franchisee by and that all such information is of a proprietary and confidential nature and is a trade secret of. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated franchisee shall maintain the absolute confidentiality of all such information during the termterm of this agreement and after the termination or expiration of this agreement for any reason whatsoever and shall not disclose any such information for any reason whatsoever disclosing the same to franchisee employees only to the extent necessary for the operation of the franchised business in accordance with this agreement. franchisee further agrees not to use any such information directly or indirectly in any other business or in any other manner or obtain any benefit therefrom not specifically approved in writing by during the term of this agreement or afterwards. employees or other helpers of the franchisee who have access to information or materials that deems confidential shall sign a confidentiality and non disclosure agreement in the form that designates from time to time. franchisee may not at any time copy duplicate record or otherwise reproduce any part of the manual. warranties is an authorized wholesaler of freezers and inventory for one or more suppliers. as a wholesale distributor neither manufactures the freezers nor manufactures the products sold by its franchisees. all warranties on freezers and products shall be manufacturers warranties. no warranty either express or implied on the freezers or products is offered by. however agrees to pass through to franchisee all warranties of manufacturers with whom and franchisee deal. franchisee obligations a franchisee agrees to use his her best efforts to sell products. so long asduring the term of this agreement is in effect except in an emergency franchisee agrees that he she willshall not purchase from any source other than or a master distributor designated by any of the products offered to franchisee by unless notifies franchisee that he or she may purchase directly from a manufacturer. nor shallsuch source. further during the term of this agreement franchisee shall not without prior written approval offer or sell through the franchised business or otherwise any products which compete directly or indirectly with products offered to franchisee by. franchisee agrees to purchase all additional freezers after purchasing initial freezers from from or sources approved by which approval will not be unreasonably withheld. franchisee shall secure at its sole expense appropriate cold storage facilities necessary for the operation of its franchised business. franchisee shall designate a single cold storage facility for receiving shipments from. will ship only to such a designated cold storage facility approved by in writing which is located in franchisee msa or in a surrounding area. may withhold its approval of a cold storage facility in its sole discretion including without limitation if determines that transportation of products to the facility is difficult or impractical. franchisee agrees not to engage in any activities which reflect unfavorably upon the manufacturers of the products acquired pursuant to this agreement or upon. franchisee agrees to allow to use franchisee likeness company name or individual name as the case may be in future promotional materials as well as to identify franchisee as an franchisee. franchisee shall purchase automobile and business liability insurance for the franchise business in amounts adequate to protect franchisee and against claims of up to one million dollars gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated such policies shall name as an additional insured. if franchisee doesn purchase the insurance as required may at its option purchase the minimum coverage required of franchisee and charge franchisee an administrative surcharge of up to one hundred ten percent of the cost of the premium to cover associated administrative costs. franchisee must provide with certificates of such insurance within sixty days of the executioneffective date of this agreement or at such other time as may be designated by after franchisee signing date. franchisee shall require the insurance carrier to provide with at least thirty days notice of its intended cancellation of such policy ies. franchisee shall maintain all accounting reports lists of active accounts lists of accounts which franchisee is actively pursuing and other informational reports as may require. franchisee shall also respond in a reasonable amount of time to questionnaires and provide other information as may require. in the event that franchisee has not responded to any such requests from within two weeks after the requested due date may in its sole discretion refrain from shipping any additional products or other items to franchisee until such requested information is provided. i franchisee shall within thirty days after executionthe effective date of this agreement provide with a quality photograph of franchisee together with franchisee household family members if applicable. franchisee and all members in the photograph shall execute a personal release in the form set forth in schedule attached hereto so that may use such photograph. franchisee shall only stock freezers and carts with products products authorized productsby and other non competitive products. franchisee shall ensure that products constitute at least two thirds of all products contained in each of its freezers and carts. if elects to add items to its line of products these items can also be stocked in the freezers and carts and competitive products shall be removed. franchisee agrees to conduct its business at all times in a manner using sales marketing and operational procedures which have been prescribed and or approved by in either its confidential operations manual if any or other communications to its franchisees. franchisee agrees that it will not without prior written approval sell assign or transfer any freezer to a person or entity that is not an franchisee until franchisee has removed all products the licensed marks decals and other marks associated with the franchise from the freezer. franchisee acknowledges that it would be difficult to determine the amount of damages suffered by if franchisee fails to comply with this subsection so franchisee agrees that franchisee shall pay three thousand dollars in addition to all attorneys fees incurs in enforcing this provision as liquidated damages and not as a penalty for each individual violation of this subsection. the requirements of this section. apply even when and franchisee are not renewing the franchise agreement. franchisee agrees that during the term of this agreement he she shall attend and participate in convention or such other conference or meeting as may be designated by i either the convention or the symposium within two years after commencing operation of the franchised business and ii at least one convention or symposium every three year period thereafter. failure to comply with this requirement will result in either termination or a finean administrative charge of at the discretion of. all shipments will be withheld until such fineamount has been paid. franchisee shall solely be responsible for the costs associated with attending such conventions or symposiums including airfare lodging and meals. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated franchisee agrees that within three months afterprior to franchisee commences businesscommencing operation of the franchise business and at all times thereafter during the term of this agreement franchisee shall have a computer or some other electronic device along with access to the internet through an internet access provider which will enable franchisee to communicate via mail with from franchisee place of business. franchisee agrees that it will review its mail messages at least once every business daybusiness day unless otherwise agreed upon by in advance. business day as used in this agreement is a day when banks are open for regular commercial business in the united states. franchisee agrees that franchisee shall execute a security agreement in a form satisfactory to in the event that extends credit to franchisee in connection with the purchase of more than two pallets cases of products. transfer a may sell or assign any or all of its rights or interests in this agreement at any time. franchisee may sell assign or transfer his her interest in this agreement in franchisee or in the franchised business only with prior written approval which may be withheld for good business reasons which include but are not limited to the failure of the franchisee transferee or terms of the transfer to satisfy the terms and standards generally applies to transfers and transferees at the time franchisee proposes to make a transfer. the standards need not be in writing. franchisee must notify of any bona fide proposed transfer or sale of any rights or interests in franchisee the franchise agreement or the franchised business and set forth a complete description of all terms and fees of the proposed transfer or assignment including the proposed transferee name address financial qualifications and previous five years business experience. or its assignee may within thirty days after receipt of such notice purchase the interest offered on the same economic terms as those offered less any brokerage fees or commissions. if fails to exercise its option to purchase the interest which is the subject of the transfer or assignment within thirty days of receipt of the notice described above shall notify franchisee of its approval or disapproval of the proposed transfer and its terms. if approves the transfer it only may be accomplished on terms which are no more favorable to the transferee than were the terms offered to. may condition a transfer upon the transferee paying a transfer fee and training fee but no initial franchise fee and upon the transferee executing a general release for the benefit of its employees agents and representatives and upon the transferee signing then current form of franchise agreement. the transfer fee and training fee will be the amounts set forth in then current operations manual. franchisee may transfer to another msa only with prior written approval which may be withheld in sole discretion. such transfer will be conditioned upon franchisee payment of three thousand dollars and franchisee entering into then current franchise agreement. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated upon franchisee death or disability or if franchisee is a corporation partnership or other entity the death or disability of a principal owner franchisee or such principal owner executor administrator conservator guardian or other personal representative shall transfer franchisee interest in this agreement or the principal owner interest in franchisee to a third party provided the transfer is made to the spouse adult child heirs or legal representative of the deceased or disabled person and such person has been approved by in advance which approval may be withheld for good business reasons. such disposition of this agreement or the interest in franchisee including without limitation transfer by bequest or inheritance must be completed within a reasonable time not to exceed six months from the date of death or disability and will be subject to all of the terms and conditions applicable to transfers contained in this section. failure to transfer franchisee interest in this agreement or a principal owner interest in franchisee to an approved party within this period of time constitutes a breach of this agreement. for purposes hereof the term disability means a mental or physical disability impairment or condition that is reasonably expected to prevent or actually does prevent franchisee or the principal owner from managing and operating the franchised business. any transfer made pursuant to this section. shall not be subject to the provisions of section. or. termination may terminate the franchise agreement without prejudice to the enforcement of any legal or equitable remedy immediately upon giving franchisee written notice of such termination and the reason or cause for the termination without providing franchisee with an opportunity to cure the default except as otherwise provided herein. the following shall constitute sufficient basis for to terminate the franchise agreement a if the franchisee fails to pay any financial obligation to or to a supplier of products or equipment approved by or fails to comply with section. of this agreement within five days after gives franchisee a written notice of default. if the franchisee fails to perform or breaches any covenant or obligation owing under the franchise agreement not otherwise described in this section and fails to cure such non compliance within thirty days after gives franchisee written notice of default. if franchisee uses the licensed marks in any way which has not been previously approved by. if franchisee attempts to divert any prospective franchisee from entering into a franchise agreement with or if franchisee attempts to sell its franchise or franchised business in the msa within ninety days of the date is scheduled to participate in a franchise or business opportunity show conducting an in house workshop or conducting an advertising campaign to select new franchisees in the franchisee msa without prior written approval. if franchisee attempts to sell its franchise or any interest in franchisee or its franchised business in any msa within ninety days of the day is scheduled to participate in a franchise or business opportunity show conducting an in house workshop or conducting an advertising campaign to select new franchisees without prior written approval. if franchisee attempts to subfranchise or subdivide its franchise rights without prior written approval. if franchisee sells or attempts to sell any product to another wholesaler distributor or former franchisee without prior written approval gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated if franchisee engages in any other activities which in reasonable opinion brings discredit upon the licensed marks or the reputation and goodwill of or its franchisees i if franchisee files or if franchisee has filed against it a voluntary or involuntary petition in bankruptcy or is adjudicated as bankrupt or insolvent if franchisee files any petition or answer seeking or acquiescing in any reorganization arrangement liquidation dissolution receivership appointment of trustee liquidator or examiner if a receiver trustee or liquidator is appointed for all or any part of franchisee assets or upon the dissolution or termination of existence of franchisee. if franchisee sells more than fifty percent of the assets relating to its franchised business. if franchisee has received from during any consecutive month period or more notices of default whether or not the notices relate to the same or to different defaults and whether or not the defaults were timely cured by franchisee. if franchisee abandons or fails or refuses to actively operate the franchised business for any period such that may reasonably conclude that franchisee does not intend to continue operating the franchised business. if franchisee fails to purchase at least four pallets cases of frozen products from or an authorized master distributor during any calendar year following the year in which executes the franchise agreement. if franchisee attempts to directly contact any of freight companies vendors or national accounts. if franchisee sells or attempts to sell to another franchisee account or. if franchisee fails to attend and participate in the convention or symposium as required under section. of this agreement. if franchisee fails to begin the operation of its franchise business within ninetysix daysmonths after the executioneffective date or. if during the term of the franchise agreement. franchisee offers or sells through the franchised business or otherwise any products which compete directly or indirectly with products. obligations following termination or nonrenewal upon the expiration or termination of the franchise agreement franchisee shall immediately a cease to be a franchisee of and cease to operate the former franchised business. franchisee shall not thereafter directly or indirectly represent to the public that the former franchised business is or was operated or in any way connected with products or hold itself out as a present or former franchisee of. pay all sums owing to. upon termination for any default by franchisee such sums shall include actual damages costs and expenses incurred by as a result of the default gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated return to any and all trade secrets and confidential materials owned by and all copies thereof which may be in franchisee possession. franchisee shall retain no copy or record of any of the foregoing other than its copy of the franchise agreement any correspondence between the parties and any other document which franchisee reasonably needs for compliance with any applicable provision of law. provide a complete list of franchisee employees customers their respective addresses all mailing lists and any outstanding obligations franchisee may have to any third parties including outstanding customer orders. shall have the right but not the obligation to fill any such outstanding customer orders generated by franchisee and in such event franchisee shall immediately reimburse for any costs or expenses incurred by in doing so. in addition shall have the right to cancel any orders placed by franchisee for which delivery has not been made. take such action as may be required by to terminate transfer or assign to or its designee all telephone numbers white and yellow page telephone and internet references and advertisements and all trade and similar name registrations and business licenses and to cancel any interest which franchisee may have in the same. take such action as may be required by or by franchisee freezer location agreement with the account serviced by franchisee to remove freezers or other assets of the franchise business from such account retail establishment at franchisee sole cost and expense. cease to use in advertising or in any manner whatsoever any methods procedures or techniques in which has a proprietary right title or interest the licensed marks and other marks and indicia of origin associated with the franchise and remove or change all trade dress including photographs of products decals posters and other indications of association with the franchise from any vehicles buildings freezers uniforms clothing and other effects at the franchisee expense and in a manner satisfactory to. unless otherwise approved in writing by franchisee must return to all copies of materials bearing the licensed marks as specified by. in addition. for one yearyears following the termination or expiration of the franchise agreement the franchisee shall not within franchisee msa or within ten miles of franchisee msa directly or indirectly own an interest in or engage in any business in franchisee msa or in surrounding areas where franchisee has carried on the franchised business which that sells products that compete directly with the brand products which were sold by the franchisee during the term of the franchiseproducts. franchisee agrees that the length of time in this section will be tolled for any period during which franchisee is in breach of the covenants set forth in this section or any other period during which seeks to enforce this agreement. i franchisee understands and acknowledges that shall have the right in its sole discretion to reduce the scope of any covenant set forth in the franchise agreement or any portions thereof without the franchisee consent effective immediately upon receipt by franchisee of written notice thereof and franchisee agrees that it shall comply immediately with any covenant as so modified. i if all or any portion of a covenant described above is held unenforceable by a court or agency having valid jurisdiction in an unappealed final decision to which is a party franchisee expressly agrees to be bound by any lesser covenant imposing the maximum duty permitted by law that is subsumed within the terms of such covenant as if the resulting covenant were separately stated in and made a part of the covenants described above. franchisee further expressly agrees that the existence of any claim gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated it may have against whether or not arising from the franchise agreement shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement by of the above covenants. franchisee acknowledges that franchisee violation of the terms of section would result in irreparable injury to franchisor for which no adequate remedy at law may be available and franchisee accordingly consents to the issuance of an injunction prohibiting any conduct by franchisee in violation of the terms of section. disclaimers a except as is expressly set forth elsewhere in this agreement will not refund franchisee initial investment in whole or in part unless the freezers or products sold to franchisee by are defective and the manufacturer does not promptly replace the defective freezers or products. except as set forth in the franchise disclosure document that has been delivered to franchisee makes no representations whatsoever as to the actual or potential sales income or profits a franchisee may achieve as a result of this agreement. franchisee acknowledges that the success or failure of the franchisee business depends substantially upon franchisee himself or herself. remedies a franchisee may only bring any claims he or she may have against in arbitration pursuant to the rules of the american arbitration association in palm beach county florida. may bring any claim it may have against franchisee in arbitration pursuant to the rules of the american arbitration association in palm beach county florida. also may bring an action in any court of competent jurisdiction to enjoin any violation of this agreement or to obtain specific performance hereof. franchisee shall be liable to for costs and attorneys fees arising from pursuing or defending against any claims against franchisee in arbitration or in litigation regardless of the forum. additionally franchisee agrees to reimburse for any fees or expenses incurs in collecting any amounts due under this agreement. governing law this agreement shall be governed by and interpreted under the laws of florida. acknowledgments a franchisee understands and acknowledges that is not the manufacturer of the freezers which sells to franchisee and that makes no representations or warranties about the freezers. has multiple sources of freezers which are all similar in utility value but may have minor differences in dimensions features and colors. the freezers currently come in either red white or blue. the freezers do not include locks or baskets although manufacturers and may occasionally add those features at no charge. franchisee only contractual obligation is to and this agreement creates no contractual obligation between franchisee and any manufacturer or other suppliers of products or equipment. agrees to arrange shipment of all freezers purchased at the time this agreement is executed to franchisee within approximately thirty working days from receipt and approval of this agreement and receipt of payment in full by ach automated clearing house business days from the effective date if so approved by franchisee. in the event of strikes riots insurrections circumstances gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated beyond control or acts of god this period may be extended but under no circumstances to exceed ninety working daysbusiness days. if fails to effect shipment within such time period franchisee upon request shall have payment for said order refunded immediately. franchisee shall be responsible for franchisee own federal state and local taxes and or compliance with all applicable laws as well as any sales taxes due on equipment or products purchased from. franchisee shall act as an independent contractor and shall be solely liable for determining the nature and applicability of all local laws which may apply to the operation of the franchised business in franchisee msa or where else the franchisee conducts business. all franchisee purchases of products shall be made solely from or an authorized master distributor other than emergency purchases to fill an unexpected shortage of certain products which purchases may be made from another franchisee. an product or product is any product designated as such by and which makes available for purchase by franchisee. all purchases of products freezers and other items from must be made via ach automated clearing house unless agrees otherwise in writing in advance. franchisee and agree that this agreement contains their entire understanding relative to its subject matter and there is no reliance upon any verbal or other written representation whatsoever. has not guaranteed minimum or maximum earnings any estimate thereof is in the nature of possibilities only earnings are primarily dependent upon the type of service and promotion rendered by the franchisee and sales volume which factors are beyond the control of. this agreement may be amended only in writing and signed by all parties hereto. franchisee acknowledges that nothing in this agreement or in any related agreement is intended to disclaim the representations franchisorh made in the franchise disclosure document. franchisee agrees not to use the licensed marks or any trademarks service marks names or indicia which are or maybe confusingly similar to the licensed marks in franchisee name or identity. franchisee must obtain written permission to use any of the licensed marks from on a per use basis if such use has not previously been authorized in writing. franchisee acknowledges that or its agent has provided franchisee with a franchise disclosure document not later than the earlier of the first personal meeting held to discuss the sale of the franchise ten businesssixteen days before the execution of this agreement or ten businessfranchisee signing date or sixteen days before any payment of any consideration connected to the purchase of this franchise. franchisee further acknowledges that franchisee has read such franchise disclosure document and understands its contents. franchisee acknowledges that has provided franchisee with a copy of this agreement and all related documents fully completed for at least fivenine business days prior to franchisee execution hereofsigning date. i franchisee acknowledges that has advised it to consult with its own attorneys accountants or other advisors that franchisee has had ample opportunity to do so and that the attorneys for have not advised or represented franchisee with respect to this agreement or the relationship hereby created. franchisee acknowledges and recognizes that different terms and conditions including different fee structure and investment requirements may pertain to different franchises offered in the past contemporaneously herewith or in the future and that does not represent that all franchise agreements are or will be identical. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated franchisee acknowledges that except as is specifically set forth in this agreement it is not nor is it intended to be a third party beneficiary of this agreement or any other agreement or contractual relationship to which is a party. this agreement only shall become effective upon its execution by president. franchisee agrees that the franchised business shall only be operated by the franchisee or by a manager employee employed by franchisee who has previously been approved by. approval of franchisee manager employee shall be predicated upon the manager execution of a confidentiality agreement in a form approved by. signature page follows gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated in witness whereof the parties intending to be legally bound hereby have duly executed sealed and delivered this agreement. happy healthy products incorporated franchisee by by linda kerr kamm president date date the effective date the franchisee signing date by date happy healthy products incorporated franchisee by linda kerr kamm president by date date by date gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated schedule franchisee metropolitan statistical area msa awards franchisee the right to operate an franchised business pursuant to the attached franchise agreement in the metropolitan statistical area known as map depicting the boundaries is attached hereto with initials of an authorized representative and franchisee to express their agreement to its boundaries. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated schedule happy healthy products incorporated equipment purchase order name address city state zip home phone cell phone date to happy healthy products incorporated payment. dixie highway all funds to be by ach automated suite clearing house now and in the future. boca raton floruit please ship the following items initial custom display freezer includesfreezers will also include initial point of sale material and other initial materials. quantity price total custom display freezer cases of products custom watermelon cart custom fruitfull pushcart grand total on equipment additional products inventory training fee franchise fee total less veteran discount state sales tax florida only grand total includes free shipping if shipping deadline is met includes free shipping if shipping deadline is met gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated florida purchasers required to pay florida sales tax on equipment plus the county discretionary tax for the county in which they live. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated address where equipment is to be shipped note all shipments will be freight collection point of shipment unless purchaser remits balance of payment a deposit or payment in full within fifteen business daysbusiness days of receipt of the franchise disclosure document or such other deadline designated by happy healthy products incorporated in the summary pages. if purchaser makes full payment in given time frametimeframe purchaser will not be required to pay freight on initial shipment of equipment or product. if not approved within five business daysbusiness days by or purchaser refund payment immediately to purchaser. approved by representative of date date purchaser date by linda kerr kamm president purchaser date gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated schedule happy healthy products incorporated personal release in consideration of and as an inducement to the execution of the franchise agreement the franchise agreement dated by happy and healthy products incorporated a florida corporation with its principal place of business at south dixie highway suite boca raton florida and franchisee franchisee and agree as follows. franchisee hereby grants to its agents successors licensees and assigns the right to use the photograph of franchisee and franchisee family as the case may be which was provided to pursuant to the franchise agreement the photos along with any additional photos given to or acquired by. franchisee agrees and consents that may exhibit distribute transmit and or otherwise exploit the photos as may see fit in any and all media now and hereafter known and in advertising and or publicity in connection therewith and the right to use franchisee name in any connection with any of the foregoing. franchisee agrees that the rights granted to hereunder are granted for the entire world and shall inure in perpetuity and no further compensation shall be payable to franchisee at any time in connection therewith. signature page follows gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated in witness whereof the parties intending to be legally bound hereby have duly executed sealed and delivered this agreement. happy healthy products incorporated by linda kerr kamm president date franchisee by date by date gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated schedule state addenda gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated georgia in recognition of the requirements of the georgia sale of business opportunities and multilevel distribution companies law the law hereby agrees to supplement the franchise agreement as follows. hereby irrevocably appoints the secretary of state of the state of georgia as its agent for service of process in georgia for any violation of the law. principal business address island dixie highway suite boca raton florida. will deliver all products equipment supplies and services that promises to deliver to the franchisee necessary to commence the franchisee business within days after the franchisee orders such items from. in witness whereof the parties hereto have duly executed this addendum on the date first written above. happy healthy products incorporated by its franchisee by its gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated illinois this addendum is made and entered into by and between by and between happy healthy products incorporated a florida corporation and franchisee as of the day of. background. and franchisee are parties to that certain franchise agreement dated the franchise agreement. this addendum is annexed to and forms part of the franchise agreement. this addendum is being signed because a any of the offering or sales activity relating to the franchise agreement occurred in illinois and the business that franchisee will operate under the franchise agreement will be located in illinois and or franchisee is domiciled in illinois. amendments. the parties agree that the franchise agreement is amended to add or acknowledge as the case may be the following a illinois law governs the agreements between the parties to this franchise. section of the illinois franchise disclosure act provides that any provision in a franchise agreement that designates jurisdiction or venue outside the state of illinois is void. however a franchise agreement may provide for arbitration outside of illinois. section of the illinois franchise disclosure act provides that any condition stipulation or provision purporting to bind any person acquiring any franchise to waive compliance with the illinois franchise disclosure act or any other law of illinois is void. franchisee right upon termination and non renewal of a franchise agreement are set forth in sections and of the illinois franchise disclosure act. in witness whereof the parties hereto have duly executed this addendum as of the date first written above. happy healthy products incorporated by its franchisee by its gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated indiana this addendum to the franchise agreement the agreement by and between happy healthy products incorporated a florida corporation and hereinafter referred to as franchisee is made and entered into this day of. the parties agree to amend the agreement as follows. sections. and. of the agreement are modified to add the following the general release mentioned above shall not in any way act as a release or waiver of any liability incurred under the indiana deceptive practices act. section. is deleted and replaced with the following although charges no royalty or advertising fees reserves the right in the future to require franchisee to pay for costs associated with local regional and or national advertising of up to one hundred fifty dollars per month which may be adjusted for inflation by an amount equal to the rate of inflation measured by the consumer price index. in no event however shall the advertising fee be increased by more than fifty dollars in any one year. any fees so collected shall be spent by in its sole discretion for the promotion and marketing of products. shall not be required to spend such funds in a way which provides a pro rata benefit to franchisee for the funds franchisee contributes. section. of the agreement is modified to delete the following language so franchisee agrees that franchisee shall pay in addition to all attorneys fees incurs in enforcing this provision as liquidated damages and not as a penalty for each individual violation of this subsection. sections and of the agreement are deleted. section of the agreement is amended to add the following during the term of this agreement shall not compete unfairly with franchisee within a reasonable area. section. of the agreement is amended to add the following notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this provision the franchisee does not waive any right under the indiana statutes with regard to prior representations made in the indiana franchise disclosure document. section of the agreement is amended to add the following shall not obtain money goods services or any other benefit from any other person with whom franchisee does business on account of or in relation to the transaction between franchisee and the other person other than gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated compensation for services rendered by unless the benefit accounted for and transmitted to franchisee. in witness whereof the parties hereto have duly executed this addendum on the date first written above. happy healthy products incorporated by its franchisee by its gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated maryland this addendum to the franchise agreement by and between happy healthy products incorporated and franchisee dated the agreement is made and entered into on. notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in the agreement the following provision shall supersede and apply to all franchises the offer and sale of which are governed by the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law medicinae doctor code annual bus. register to all fees paid to and or its affiliates including the nonrefundable deposit and payments for goods and services received from and or its affiliates before the business opens are not due or payable until fulfills all of its material preopening obligations to franchisee. any provision in the agreement which operates to waive franchisee right to file a lawsuit alleging a cause of action arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law in any court of competent jurisdiction in the state of maryland is void and franchisee therefore may sue in maryland for claims arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. pursuant to comar. line no person may require that franchisee provide a release from liability under the provisions of the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law as part of a franchise agreement or as a condition of the sale renewal or assignment of a franchise. accordingly all such representations requiring prospective franchisees to assent to a release estoppel or waiver of liability are not intended to nor shall they act as a release estoppel or waiver of any liability incurred under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. any limitation on the period of time arbitration and or litigation claims must be brought shall not act to reduce the year statute of limitations afforded to a franchisee for bringing a claim arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. any claims arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law must be brought within years after the grant of the franchise. the general release required as a condition of renewal sale and or assignment transfer shall not apply to any liability under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. the acknowledgments or representations of the franchisee which disclaim the occurrence and or acknowledge the non occurrence of acts that would constitute a violation of the franchise law are not intended to nor shall they act as a release estoppel or waiver of any liability incurred under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. signature page follows gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated in witness whereof the parties hereto have duly executed this addendum under seal on the date first written above happy healthy incorporated by date title franchisee by date home address home phone number business address business phone number gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated minnesota this addendum to the franchise agreement by and between happy healthy products incorporated and franchisee dated the agreement is made and entered into on. in consideration of the mutual promises herein stated and for other good and valuable consideration the parties agree as follows. section of the agreement is amended to add the following with respect to franchises governed by minnesota law will comply with minn. statistical second circa subds. and which require except in certain specified cases that a franchisee be given days notice of termination with days to cure and days notice for non renewal of the franchise agreement. sections and of the agreement are amended to add the following minn. statistical circa and minn. rule. j prohibit from requiring litigation to be conducted outside minnesota. in addition nothing in this agreement can abrogate or reduce any of franchisee rights as provided for in minnesota statutes chapter county or franchisee rights to any procedure forum or remedies provided for by the laws of the jurisdiction. section. of the franchise agreement is amended to add the following agrees to indemnify franchisee against liability from your authorized use of the licensed marks if you have promptly notified of any such claim of proceeding as long as franchisee is in compliance with this agreement when the claim arose. franchisee acknowledges that has the exclusive right to control administrative proceedings or litigation concerning the licensed marks. signature page follows gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated in witness whereof the parties hereto have duly executed this agreement under seal on the date first written above happy healthy products incorporated by its franchisee by its home address home phone number facility address facility phone number title attest title affix corporate seal gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated new york the franchise agreement is amended to add the following provision in section. franchisee may terminate this agreement upon grounds available by law. happy healthy products incorporated by linda kerr kamm president date franchisee by date by date gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated washington addendum to the franchise agreement this addendum to the franchise agreement the agreement by and between happy healthy products incorporated a florida corporation and hereinafter referred to as franchisee is made and entered into this day of. the parties agree to amend the agreement as follows notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in the franchise agreement the following provisions shall supersede and apply to all franchises the offer and sale of which are governed by the washington franchise investment protection act rcw. to. the act. the state of washington has a statute rcw. which may supersede the franchise agreement in your relationship with us including the areas of termination and renewal rights of your franchise. there may also be court decisions that may supersede the franchise agreement in your relationship with us including the areas of termination and renewal by us. in any arbitration involving a franchise purchased in washington the arbitration site shall be either in the state of washington or in a place mutually agreed upon at the time of the arbitration or as determined by the arbitrator. in the event of a conflict of laws the provisions of the act shall prevail. release or waiver of rights executed by you shall not include rights under the act except when executed pursuant to a negotiated settlement after the agreement is in effect and where the parties are represented by independent counsel. provisions such as those that unreasonably restrict or limit the statute of limitations period for claims under the act or rights to a jury trial may not be enforceable. transfer fees are collectable to the extent that they may reflect our reasonable estimated or actual costs in effecting a transfer. in witness whereof the parties hereto have duly executed this addendum on the date first written above. happy healthy products incorporated by its franchisee by its gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated schedule sba addendum to the franchise agreement this addendum to happy healthy products incorporated franchise agreement the addendum is made and entered into on by and between happy healthy products incorporated a florida corporation located at south dixie highway suite boca raton florida franchisor and a located at franchisee. recitals franchisor and franchisee entered into a franchise agreement on the franchise agreement. franchisee agreed among other things to operate and maintain a franchise located at designated by franchisor as unit. franchisee has obtained from a lender a loan the loan in which funding is provided with the assistance of the united states small business administration the sba. the sba requires the execution of this addendum as a condition for obtaining sba assisted financing. now therefore in consideration of the mutual promises below and for good and valuable considerations in hand paid by each of the parties to the others the receipt and sufficiency of which the parties acknowledge the parties agree as follows. the franchise agreement is in full force and effect and franchisor has sent no official notice of default to franchisee under the franchise agreement that remains uncured as of the date hereof. the following is added at the end of section of the franchise agreement however the franchisor may not exercise a right of first refusal a if a proposed transfer is between or among individuals including members of their immediate families and their respective spouses who at the time of the proposed transfer have an ownership interest in the franchisee or the franchise and who have guaranteed the franchisee obligations under a then outstanding indebtedness which is guaranteed by the sba owner guarantor or if a proposed transfer involves a person other than an owner guarantor and the proposed transfer involves a noncontrolling ownership interest in the franchisee or the franchise unless such noncontrolling interest represents less than a ownership interest in the franchisee or in the franchise or the franchisor in combination with all of franchisor franchisees qualifies as a small business and the exercise of the right does not affect the eligibility of the borrower to qualify for the sba loan guarantee program. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated the franchisor right to approve or to disapprove a proposed transfer or transferee or to exercise its right of first refusal with respect to a transfer of a controlling interest in franchisee or the franchise shall not be affected by any of the foregoing provisions. if the franchisor does not qualify as a small business under sba regulations the parties acknowledge and understand that the franchisor exercise of its right of first refusal may result in an sba guaranteed loan becoming immediately due and payable. under section of the franchise agreement franchisor will not unreasonably withhold delay or condition its consent to any proposed transfer or assignment by franchisee that requires franchisor consent. notwithstanding the language in the security agreement the franchisor will subordinate its lien on the business collateral to any lender sba financing and lender sba will be granted a lien on the business assets of the franchisee as required in its loan authorization. this addendum automatically terminates on the earliest to occur of the following i a termination occurs under the franchise agreement ii the loan is paid or iii the sba no longer has any interest in the loan. in witness whereof the parties hereto have duly signed and executed this addendum to happy healthy products incorporated franchise agreement as of the day and year first above written. franchisor franchisee happy healthy products incorporated by by name name title title gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated exhibit financial statements. guarantee of performance for value received happy healthy guaranty llc a florida limited liability company the guarantor located at south dixie highway suite boca raton florida absolutely and unconditionally guarantees to assume the duties and obligations of happy healthy products incorporated located at south dixie highway suite boca raton florida th franchisor under its franchise registration in each state where the franchise is registered and under its franchise agreement identified in its franchise disclosure document as it may be amended and as that franchise agreement may be entered into with franchisees and amended modified or extended from time to time. this guarantee continues until all such obligations of the franchisor under its franchise registrations and the franchise agreement are satisfied or until the liability of franchisor to its franchisees under the franchise agreement has been completely discharged whichever first occurs. the guarantor is not discharged from liability if a claim by a franchisee against the franchisor remains outstanding. notice of acceptance is waived. the guarantor does not waive receipt of notice of default on the part of the franchisor. this guarantee is binding on the guarantor and its successors and assigns. the guarantor signs this guarantee at boca raton florida on decexnbe aj happy heal thy guaranty llc.fl ? lane arue linda kamm title manager gp virgin islands gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated exhibit list of franchisees gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated list of franchisees currently in operation franchise name owners street address city state zip phone magnolia freeze llc edward cwynar magnolia run hoover alabama magnoliafreeze gmail.commagno liafreeze gmail.com pure simple llc robert jill gray overlook drive trussville alabama pure.simple.llc gmail.compure.simple.llc gmail.com desert delites jeff jaeger. mariposa street phoenix arizona jjaeger desertdelites.com jjaeger desertdelites.com awesome treats incorporated rene lima goldring road. arcadia california ralima gmail.com ralima gmail.com wise selection henry fanny fong cormorant trailterrace fremont california wiseselect sbcglobal.net mailto hfong msn.comwisesel ect sbcglobal.net natural fare distributors richard dyer ley drive los angeles california naturalfare sbcglobal.net naturalfare sbcglobal.net kang natural products david kang. lacy street. apartment santa ana california davidkang gmail.com matsui enterprises joy matsui land end way oceanside california joysmatsui outlook.com joysmatsui outlook.com healthy snacks distributing chris ruckdeschel driftwood drive laguna beach california healthysnacks cox.net healthy addictions kim regis cunningham. magnolia street unit pieper road fort collinswellingt on colorado info healthyaddictions.net info healthyaddictions.net rocky mountain delites llc mary marty burger solar ridge drive colorado springs colorado rockymountaindelites hotmail.co mrockymountaindelites hotmai mailto magnoliafreeze gmail.com mailto pure.simple.llc gmail.com mailto jjaeger desertdelites.com mailto ralima gmail.com mailto hfong msn.com mailto wiseselect sbcglobal.net mailto naturalfare sbcglobal.net mailto joysmatsui outlook.com mailto info healthyaddictions.net gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated franchise name owners street address city state zip phone.com le fruits tu le and binh truong. lipan drive englewood colorado tukle gmail.comtukle gm ail.com relating distributors roger lachance. box south windsor court reldistributors gmail.com reldistributors gmail.com smarty pops incorporated sam register kim carlson northrop road woodbridge court smartypopsinc gmail.com notable snacks larry bridgewater egret circle a delray beach floruit bridgewaterks aol.com fruit fun incorporated marsha dyal cynthia stapf parapet drive cocoa floruit mldequus aol.com fruitfuninc gmail.com healthy treats haydee emma beltran east river drive margate floruit bbhealthytreats gmail.com bbhealthytreats gmail.com kool delights ali zehra khan kemble court tampa floruit kooldelights yahoo.com croips llc arlenne pantoja jeffrey croy street streetst. sarasota floruit croips.llc gmail.comcroips.llc gmail.com midwest healthy alternatives shad england north-west th street graingergranger iowa mwhealthyalt mail.com mwhealthyalt mail.com fruits of the caribbean baheir sultan pine wood waterloo illinois fruitsofcaribbean hotmail.com classic creations jeff robins abourndale court wheeling illinois abourndale aol.comabourndale aol.com hpc enterprises henry daisy cua wiltshirewilshire drive east wilmette illinois hpc united states of america usa or sbcglobal.nethpc united states of america usa or sbcglobal.net mailto rockymountaindelites hotmail.com mailto tukle gmail.com mailto reldistributors gmail.com mailto fruitfuninc gmail.com mailto bbhealthytreats gmail.com mailto croips.llc gmail.com mailto mwhealthyalt mail.com mailto abourndale aol.com mailto hpc united states of america usa or sbcglobal.net gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated franchise name owners street address city state zip phone hoosier select distribution mike rogers winners circle carmel in mnrogers yahoo.com derby city snacks jane johns cypress glen drive louisville key janesignson earthlink.netjane delaware rbycitysnacks.com pure wholesome distributors anthony tammy cracolici. box pittsfield massachusetts palau berkshire.rr.compwberkshire gmail.com tasteful distribution llc dee wilson. box woodville massachusetts dwilson gmail.comdwilson gmail.com cool deliveries incorporated denis faith sullivan beechland avenue baltimore medicinae doctor cooldeliveries gmail.comcooldeli veries gmail.com healthy natural snacks veronica delaware louisiana vega rodriguez grinnell terrace derwood medicinae doctor veronica.delavega gmx.com veronica.delavega gmx.com healthy wholesome patrece harold renfroe trailwood drive warren michigan hprenfroe aol.com enterprisesfruits of the caribbean shannelbaher sultan kevin samantha taybronsattler eagles crossing boschert drive wendellst. peters ncmo kandsenterprises gmail.com fruitsofcaribbean hotmail.com it snack time distribution jermaine graves old mount rd.holly road paw creekcharlotte north carolina snacktimedelivers gmail.comsnack timedelivers gmail.com good you llc robert pratt. box norfolk north-east good youdist hotmail.com good youdist hotmail.com enchantment craving llc gabriel alarid estes park avenue albuquerque new mexico gabe cravenm.comgabe craven.com mailto pwberkshire gmail.com mailto dwilson gmail.com mailto cooldeliveries gmail.com mailto veronica.delavega gmx.com mailto baheir msn.com mailto snacktimedelivers gmail.com mailto good youdist hotmail.com mailto gabe cravenm.com gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated franchise name owners street address city state zip phone enterprises robert salzman howes street merrick new york jerrs verizon.net jerrs verizon.net savory essence incorporated michael and bick ng lightner avenue staten island new york savoryessence gmail.com savoryessence gmail.com snack wise distributors llc timothy storey dorsey drive columbus oh thomas snackwisellc.com thomas snackwisellc.com healthy snacks go shannon saxon upton road youngstown oh gethealtysnacks gmail.com gethealthysnacks gmail.com arctic delights llc rickey jestice wild turkey walk maineville oh arcticdelightsllc gmail.comarcticd elightsllc gmail.com natural selections meredith ille sheffield road oklahoma city ok frozenfruitbars yahoo.com frozenfruitbars yahoo.com naturally sweet zari stahl steven payones grundy way doylestown pennsylvania naturallysweet comcast net naturallysweet comcast.net wholesome frozen treats snacks incorporated brian and janet stark i chamberlain court. smithfield rhode island bwstark reagan.com bwstark reagan.com sweet and healthy sensations christina lightfoot anderson lane willis texas sweetandhealthysensations yah oo.com sweet life distribution tiffany lexicon pace westwood drive rosenberg texas tiffany sweetlifedist.comtiffany sweetlifedist.com mailto jerrs verizon.net mailto savoryessence gmail.com mailto thomas snackwisellc.com mailto gethealthysnacks gmail.com mailto arcticdelightsllc gmail.com mailto frozenfruitbars yahoo.com mailto naturallysweet comcast.net mailto bwstark reagan.com mailto tiffany sweetlifedist.com gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated franchise name owners street address city state zip phone healthy appeals geeta vivek jain westbrook cinco lane katy texas gkajal yahoo.com snacking paradise llc rosy hoyos reynosa san antonio texas snackineparadise gmail.com snackingparadise gmail.com big distributors david kayla scott cresthill lane garland texas bigddistributors gmail.com mama mia healthy treats fiki ashine trail walker drive plano texas fikire gmail.com healthy indulgence incorporated paul tonja clark. sego lily road morgan utah healthyindulgenceinc gmail.comh ealthyindulgenceinc gmail.com nova healthy treats andre watson connell websters way manassas virginia vahealthytreats verizon.net vahealthytreats outlook.com moore healthy snacks llc michael moore greenland court fredericksburg virginia moorehealthysnacks gmail.co tiki pete healthy treats edward lucinda pearson north dakota avenue north-east lake forest park washington tikipetes comcast.net tikipetes comcast.net franchisee who was previously located at pine wood waterloo illinois relocated to boschert drive street peters month but did not cease operations and therefore is not included on list of terminations in exhibit. mailto snackingparadise gmail.com mailto bigddistributors gmail.com mailto fikire gmail.com mailto healthyindulgenceinc gmail.com mailto vahealthytreats outlook.com mailto moorehealthysnacks gmail.com mailto tikipetes comcast.net gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated exhibit list of franchisees who have left the system from january through december gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated franchisees who have left the system from january through december franchisees terminated franchisees terminated franchise name owners street address city state zip phone. lively up your snacks tracy jason gregory. greenwood court evergreen colorado prohealthyk llcenterprises john shanleyshannel kevin taybron po box eagles crossing drive brandonwende lines flnc franchisees who sold substantially all their assets other than their franchise agreements to happy healthy franchisees franchisees who sold substantially all their assets other than their franchise agreements to happy healthy franchisees franchise name owners street address city state zip phone healthy appeals geeta jain westbrook cinco lane katy texas smarty pops incorporated sam register kim carlson northrop road woodbridge court healthykang natural products of georgia tyronedavid carpenterkang po box. lacy street apartment riverdalesanta ana gaca kernal bj tasty treatsnotable snacks paul barbara kleinlarry bridgewater cimarron drive. egret circle a auroradelray beach ilfl hoosier select distribution mike rogers winners circle carmel in healthykool delights distributors llc rafael vargasali zehra lane boulevard kalamazootam mifl gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated franchise name owners street address city state zip phone khan kemble court pennsylvania kas investment iii llc shanell kim busby williams avenue brooklyn new york delightfully healthy snacks alan guerry angela rodin incline drive wake forest north carolina deliciously healthy snacks llc liz luciano keith forehand kingwood lane levittown pennsylvania healthy temptations llc forrest michals buckeye drive flower mound texas happy nature treats david lowrey amesbury manor lane houston texas healthy treats thomas kennedy ellen aleskowitz upton drive suite virginia beach virginia gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated franchisees who have otherwise left the system franchise name owners reet address city state zip phone cer mor distributing vanessa moran and david cerrato anson road concord massachusetts cool breeze distribution llc pat vaughan po box las vegas nevada none franchisees who we have not communicated with in the past weeks none gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated exhibit freezer agreement gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated exhibit operations manual table of contents number of pages. mission statement. welcome to introduction to purpose of operations manual acknowledgements disclaimer trademarks licensed marks copyrights commitment to the community contacting. before you get started. getting started in business choosing your company name forms of business licensing insurance banking business address telephone answering service office locations office equipment supplies office procedures cold storage. locating week before your consultant arrives pick meeting locating week things to do samplings initial delivery stocking once your consultant leaves. sales know yourself understanding your msa know your customer account lists national accounts know your product know how to respond to objections know your competition http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http know how to sell. distribution operations transporting your product servicing your wholesale accounts customer service evaluating current accounts account relations. retail events types characteristics of a good event applying for an event supplies equipment preparation advertising safety tips and if it rains? wrapping up alternatives photo submission summary. equipment manufacturer of freezers freezer approval ratings freezer specifications receiving your custom happy healthy freezers procedures for inspecting your new freezers test running your freezers freezers in need of repair removing ice build up from freezer yearly or as needed freezer maintenance other safety measures further warranty information optional equipment retail carts cold plates ordering equipment. products frozen product information ordering concerns damaged product non frozen product information. point of sale. materials benefits items available creating your own fruitfull fun fliers half umbrella instructions diagram ordering shipping handling. the books accounting practices with accounting practices for your own business inventory management bookkeeping basics http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http customer and accounting files accounting and bookkeeping for your business tracking your customer sales managing your funds financial statements taxes payroll summary. safety notices dry ice electrical lifting auto cell phone driving. legal notices sale or transfer of business dissolving a business trademarks insurance termination sales to ice cream distributors. glossary of terms. blank forms total pages http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http http gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated exhibit security agreement gp verb verb happy and healthy products incorporated security agreement this security agreement this agreement is dated as of and entered into by and between franchisee and happy healthy products incorporated a florida corporation. whereas intends to sell from time to time certain of products to franchisee the products whereas in connection with each sale of the products to franchisee will invoice franchisee for the cost of the products each such invoice an invoice whereas it is a condition to the initial extension of credit subsequent to or contemporaneous with the execution of this agreement to franchisee with respect to the sale of the products to franchisee and to the extension of credit to franchisee from time to time with respect to further sales of the products to franchisee that franchisee shall have granted the security interests contemplated by this agreement and franchisee desires to grant such security interests in order to induce to extend credit with respect to the sale of the products to franchisee now therefore in consideration of the premises and in order to induce to extend credit with respect to the sale of the products to franchisee franchisee hereby agrees with as follows. definitions. certain defined terms. the following terms as used herein have the meanings set forth below control means control as defined in the ucc. proceeds means all proceeds as defined in the ucc of and all other profits rentals or receipts in whatever form arising from the collection sale lease exchange assignment licensing or other disposition of or realization upon any collateral. security interests means the security interests granted pursuant to section hereof as well as all other security interests created or assigned as additional security for the secured obligations as defined in section pursuant to the provisions of this agreement or any invoice. ucc means the uniform commercial code as in effect on the date hereof in the state of florida provided that if by reason of mandatory provisions of law the perfection or the effect of perfection or non perfection of the security interests in any collateral or the availability of any remedy hereunder is governed by the uniform commercial code as in effect on or after the date hereof in any other jurisdiction ucc means the uniform commercial code as in effect in such other jurisdiction for purposes of the provisions hereof relating to such perfection or effect of perfection or non perfection or availability of such remedy. grant of security interests to secure the payment performance and observance of the secured obligations franchisee hereby grants to a first priority security interest in a right of setoff against and an assignment to of gp verb verb happy and healthy products incorporated all right title and interest of franchisee in all being collectively referred to as the collateral a all right title and interest in the equipment set forth in exhibit hereto and replacements therefor and proceeds of all or any of the property described in subparts a above. security for obligations this agreement secures the payment and performance of the invoices and all indebtedness liabilities and obligations of franchisee now or hereafter existing under this agreement and all renewals extensions restructurings and refinancings of any of the above including without limitation any additional indebtedness which may be extended to franchisee pursuant to any restructuring or refinancing of franchisee indebtedness under any invoice and including any post petition interest accruing during any bankruptcy reorganization of franchisee or other similar proceeding all such indebtedness liabilities and obligations of franchisee being collectively called the secured obligations. representations and warranties franchisee represents and warrants as follows. ownership of collateral. franchisee owns the collateral and will own all after acquired collateral free and clear of any lien pledge encumbrance or security interest other than those created by this agreement. no effective financing statement or other form of lien notice covering all or any part of the collateral is on file in any recording office except for those in favor of. office locations. franchisee principal place of business and all of the sites where any collateral is located are specified on schedule which schedule shall be amended from time to time pursuant to the terms of this agreement. further assurances covenants. other documents and actions. franchisee will from time to time at its expense promptly execute and deliver all further instruments and documents and take all further action that may be necessary or desirable or that may request in order to create perfect and protect the security interests granted or purported to be granted hereby or pursuant to any invoice or to enable to exercise and enforce its rights and remedies hereunder or under any invoice with respect to any collateral. corporate or name change. franchisee will give at least thirty days prior written notice of any change in franchisee name identity mailing address or corporate structure. with respect to any such change franchisee will execute such documents and take such actions as deems necessary or desirable to create perfect and preserve the security interests. business locations. franchisee will give at least ten days prior written notice of i any change in franchisee principal place of business or ii of any new location of any of the collateral. schedule hereto shall be amended to reflect any such change in franchisee principal place of business or any new location of any of the collateral. with respect to any new location of any collateral which in any event shall be within the continental united states franchisee will execute such documents and take such actions as deems necessary or desirable to create perfect and preserve the security interests. gp verb verb happy and healthy products incorporated protection of collateral. franchisee will do nothing to impair the rights of in the collateral. franchisee assumes all liability and responsibility in connection with the collateral acquired by it and the liability of franchisee to pay the secured obligations shall in no way be affected or diminished by reason of the fact that such collateral may be lost stolen damaged or for any reason whatsoever unavailable to franchisee. appointed attorney in fact franchisee hereby irrevocably appoints as franchisee attorney in fact with full authority in the place and stead of franchisee and in the name of franchisee or otherwise or without the signature of franchisee where permitted by law from time to time in discretion to take any action and to execute any instrument that may deem necessary or advisable to accomplish the purposes of this agreement. franchisee hereby ratifies and approves all acts of made or taken pursuant to this section. neither nor any person designated by shall be liable for any acts or omissions or for any error of judgment or mistake of fact or law unless it is determined by a judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction final and not subject to review on appeal that such action omission error or mistake constituted gross negligence or willful misconduct. this power being coupled with an interest is irrevocable so long as this agreement shall remain in force. event of default the occurrence of any of the following shall be deemed an event of default hereunder an event of default a failure by franchisee to make any payment of principal or interest under any invoice when it becomes due and payable or to perform any other term condition provision or covenant contained herein failure by franchisee to perform any term condition provision or covenant contained in any other agreement between and franchisee including without limitation the franchise agreement any statement representation warranty or covenant made by franchisee in connection with this agreement now or hereafter is found to have been untrue incomplete or misleading when made or furnished an application is made by franchisee for the appointment of a receiver trustee or custodian for any of franchisee assets a petition under any section or chapter of the bankruptcy code or any similar law or regulation is filed by franchisee franchisee makes an assignment for the benefit of its creditors any case or proceeding is filed by franchisee for its dissolution liquidation or termination the collateral securing this indebtedness or franchisee other assets are attached seized levied upon or subjected to a writings of distress or warrant franchisee is enjoined restrained or in any way prevented by court order from conducting all or any material part of its business affairs or an application is made against franchisee for the appointment of a receiver trustee or custodian for any of franchisee assets and such petition is not dismissed within thirty days a petition under any section or chapter of the bankruptcy code or any similar law or regulation is filed against franchisee and such petition is not dismissed within thirty days or any case or proceeding is filed against franchisee for its dissolution liquidation or termination and is not dismissed within thirty days. gp verb verb happy and healthy products incorporated remedies if any event of default shall have occurred may exercise in respect of the collateral in addition to all other rights and remedies provided for herein or otherwise available to it all the rights and remedies of a secured party on default under the ucc whether or not the ucc applies to the affected collateral and also may require franchisee to and franchisee hereby agrees that it will at its expense and upon request of forthwith assemble all or part of the collateral as directed by and make it available to at any reasonable place or places designated by. to the extent permitted by law franchisee hereby specifically waives all rights of redemption stay or appraisal which it has or may have under any law now existing or hereafter enacted. upon the occurrence of an event of default or its agents or attorneys shall have the right without notice or demand or legal process unless the same shall be required by applicable law personally or by agents or attorneys to enter upon occupy and use any premises owned or leased by franchisee or where the collateral is located or is believed to be located until the secured obligations are paid in full without any obligation to pay rent to franchisee to remove the collateral or any part thereof therefrom to the premises of or any agent of for such time as may desire in order to effectively collect or liquidate the collateral and use in connection with such removal any and all services supplies and other facilities of franchisee. franchisee acknowledges and agrees that a breach of any of the covenants contained in sections and hereof will cause irreparable injury to and that has no adequate remedy at law in respect of such breaches and therefore agrees without limiting the right of to seek and obtain specific performance of other obligations of franchisee contained in this agreement that the covenants of franchisee contained in the sections referred to in this section shall be specifically enforceable against franchisee. limitation on duty of with respect to collateral beyond the safe custody thereof shall have no duty with respect to any collateral in its possession or control or in the possession or control of any agent or bailee or the preservation of rights against prior parties or any other rights pertaining thereto. shall be deemed to have exercised reasonable care in the custody and preservation of the collateral in its possession if the collateral is accorded treatment substantially equal to that which it accords its own property. shall not be liable or responsible for any loss or damage to any of the collateral or for any diminution in the value thereof by reason of the act or omission of any warehouseman carrier forwarding agency consignee or other agent or bailee selected by in good faith. application of proceeds upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default the proceeds of any sale of or other realization upon all or any part of the collateral shall be applied first to all fees costs and expenses incurred by with respect to the collateral including without limitation those described in section hereof second to accrued and unpaid interest on the secured obligations including any interest which but for the provisions of the bankruptcy code would have accrued on such amounts and third to the principal amounts of the secured obligations outstanding. any balance remaining shall be delivered to franchisee or to whomsoever may be lawfully entitled to receive such balance or as a court of competent jurisdiction may direction expenses gp verb verb happy and healthy products incorporated franchisee shall pay all costs fees and expenses of perfecting maintaining and enforcing the security interests and any and all excise property sales and use taxes imposed by any state federal or local authority on any of the collateral. termination of security interests release of collateral upon final payment in full of all secured obligations and the receipt by of the written confirmation of franchisee terminating any further credit accommodations by the security interests granted herein shall terminate with respect to all or any portion of the collateral which has not been paid to pursuant to the terms of this agreement if any the remaining collateral and all rights to the remaining collateral shall revert to franchisee. upon such termination of the security interests or release of the remaining collateral will at the expense of franchisee execute and deliver to franchisee such documents as franchisee shall reasonably request to evidence the termination of the security interests or the release of the remaining collateral as the case may be. notices any notice approval request demand consent or other communication hereunder including any notice of default or notice of sale shall be in writing including facsimile transmission and shall be sent to the applicable party at its address shown below or at such other address as such party may by written notice received by the other party have designated as its address for such purpose. notices sent by facsimile transmission shall be deemed to have been given when sent notices sent by mail shall be deemed to have been given three business days after the date when sent by registered or certified mail postage prepaid and notices sent by hand delivery or overnight courier service shall be deemed to have been given when received. notices shall be addressed as follows if to happy healthy products incorporated south dixie highway suite boca raton florida attention rona doyle facsimile if to franchisee attention facsimile. successors and assigns this agreement is for the benefit of and its successors and assigns and in the event of an assignment of all or any of the secured obligations the rights hereunder to the extent applicable to the secured obligations so assigned may be transferred with such secured obligations. this agreement shall be binding on franchisee and its successors and assigns provided that franchisee may not delegate its obligations under this agreement without prior written consent. amendments waivers and consents no amendment modification termination or waiver of any provision of this agreement shall be effective unless the same shall be in writing signed by and franchisee. gp verb verb happy and healthy products incorporated survival all representations and warranties of franchisee shall survive the execution and delivery of this agreement. applicable law this agreement is governed by and shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the internal laws of the state of florida without regard to conflict of laws principles. forum selection and consent to jurisdiction any litigation based hereon or arising out of under or in connection with this agreement or any other loan document shall be brought and maintained exclusively in the courts of the state of florida or in the united states district court for the southern district of florida provided that any suit seeking enforcement against any collateral or other property may be brought at option in the courts of any jurisdiction where such collateral or other property may be foundation franchisee hereby expressly and irrevocably submits to the jurisdiction of the courts of the state of florida or in the united states district court for the southern district of florida for the purpose of any such litigation as set forth above. franchisee further irrevocably consents to the service of process by registered mail postage prepaid or by personal service within or without the state of florida. franchisee hereby expressly and irrevocably waives to the fullest extent permitted by law any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any such litigation brought in any such court referred to above and any claim that any such litigation has been brought in an inconvenient forum. in witness whereof the parties have caused this agreement to be executed and delivered as of the date first written above. happy healthy products incorporated franchisee by linda kerr kamm president by date date by date gp verb verb happy and healthy products incorporated schedule principal place of business location of collateral. principal place of business. location of collateral gp verb verb happy and healthy products incorporated exhibit description of collateral gp verb verb happy and healthy products incorporated maryland addendum to security agreement this addendum to the security agreement by and between happy healthy products incorporated and franchisee dated the agreement is made and entered into on. notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in the agreement the following provision shall supersede and apply to all franchises the offer and sale of which are governed by the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law medicinae doctor code annual bus. register to any provision in the agreement which operates to waive franchisee right to file a lawsuit alleging a cause of action arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law in any court of competent jurisdiction in the state of maryland is void and franchisee therefore may sue in maryland for claims arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. pursuant to comar. line no person may require that franchisee provide a release from liability under the provisions of the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law as part of a franchise agreement or as a condition of the sale renewal or assignment of a franchise. accordingly all such representations requiring prospective franchisees to assent to a release estoppel or waiver of liability are not intended to nor shall they act as a release estoppel or waiver of any liability incurred under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. nothing in the agreement or in any related agreement is intended to disclaim the representations made in the franchise disclosure document. any limitation on the period of time arbitration and or litigation claims must be brought shall not act to reduce the year statute of limitations afforded to a franchisee for bringing a claim arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. any claims arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law must be brought within years after the grant of the franchise. nothing in this agreement or in any related agreement is intended to disclaim the representations franchisor made in the franchise disclosure document. the general release required as a condition of renewal sale and or assignment transfer shall not apply to any liability under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. in witness whereof the parties hereto have duly executed this addendum under seal on the date first written above happy healthy products incorporated franchisee by linda kerr kamm president by date date by date gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated exhibit state addenda to franchise disclosure document gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated addendum to the disclosure document pursuant to the california franchise investment law and the california franchise relations act the california franchise investment law requires that copy of all proposed agreements relating to the sale of the franchise be delivered together with the disclosure document. the following provisions supersede any inconsistent provisions in the disclosure document and apply to all franchises the offer and sale of which are governed by the california franchise investment law california business and professions code sections through provide rights to the franchisee concerning the termination transfer or non renewal of a franchise. if the franchise agreement contains a provision that is inconsistent with the law the law will control. the franchise agreement provides for termination upon bankruptcy. this provision may not be enforceable under federal bankruptcy law. second et seq. the franchise agreement contains a covenant not to compete which extends beyond the termination of the franchise. this provision may not be enforceable under california law. the franchise agreement requires application of the laws of florida. this provision may not be enforceable under california law. the california franchise investment law requires a copy of all proposed agreements relating to the sale of the franchise to be delivered together with the disclosure document. section of the corporations code requires us to provide you a disclosure document in the form required by the commissioner of corporations before we ask you to consider a material modification of an existing franchise agreement. no person or franchise broker in item of this disclosure document is subject to any currently effective order of any national securities association or national securities exchange as defined in the securities exchange act of. a et seq. suspending or expelling such persons from membership in such association or exchange. the franchise agreement requires you to sign a general release if you transfer your franchise. california corporations code voids a waiver of your rights under the franchise investment law california corporations code through. business and professions code voids a waiver of your rights under the franchise relations act business and professions code through. the franchise agreement requires binding arbitration for any claims you may have against us. the arbitration will occur at palm beach county florida with the cost being borne by you. prospective franchisees are encouraged to consult private legal counsel to determine the applicability of california and federal laws such as business and professions code section. code of civil procedure section and the federal arbitration act to any provisions of a franchise agreement restricting venue to a forum outside of the state of california. our website has not been reviewed or approved by the california department of business oversight. any complaints concerning the gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated contents of this website may be directed to the california department of business oversight at www.dbo.ca.gov. http gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated addendum to the disclosure document pursuant to the georgia business opportunity law in recognition of the requirements of the georgia sale of business opportunities and multilevel distribution companies law the law the company hereby agrees to supplement the franchise disclosure document as follows. item of this franchise disclosure document is amended to add the following the company selling a business opportunity or the seller shall collect no more than percent of the purchase price. the balance of the purchase price shall be paid into an escrow account established with a bank or an attorney which is agreed upon by both parties. the balance in escrow shall be paid to the company days after the purchaser commences operation of the business or upon complete compliance with the terms of the contract whichever occurs first. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated addendum to the disclosure document pursuant to the illinois franchise disclosure law the cover page of this disclosure document is amended to add the following risk factors illinois law governs the agreements between the parties to this franchise. your rights upon termination and or non renewal of franchise agreement are set forth in sections and of the illinois franchise disclosure act. item of the fdd is amended to include the following statements. consistent with section of the illinois franchise disclosure act of any provision in the franchise agreement that designates jurisdiction or venue in a forum outside illinois is void with respect to any action which is otherwise enforceable in illinois except that the franchise agreement may provide for arbitration outside illinois. additionally consistent with section of the illinois franchise disclosure act of any condition stipulation or provision purporting to bind any person acquiring any franchise to waive compliance with any provision of the illinois franchise disclosure act of or any other law of illinois is void. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated addendum to the disclosure document pursuant to the indiana franchise act this disclosure document is amended to delete paragraphs and of the risk factors on the disclosure document cover page. item of this disclosure document is amended to add the following the general release mentioned above shall not in any way act as a release or waiver of any liability incurred under the indiana deceptive practices act. item of this disclosure document is amended to state as follows dispute resolution by none a arbitration or mediation item of this disclosure document is amended to state as follows choice of law none a item of this disclosure document is amended to add the following during the term of the franchise agreement the company will not unfairly compete with the franchisee within a reasonable area. item is amended to add the following notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this provision the franchisee does not waive any right under the indiana statutes with regard to prior representations made in the indiana franchise disclosure document. item is amended to add the following shall not obtain money goods services or any other benefit from any other person with whom does business on account of or in relation to the transaction between franchisee and the other person other than compensation for services rendered by unless the benefit is promptly accounted for and transmitted to franchisee. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated addendum to the disclosure document pursuant to the minnesota franchise investment law the following provisions supersede any inconsistent provision in the disclosure document and apply to all franchises the offer and sale of which are covered by the minnesota franchise investment law item of this disclosure document is amended to add the following minn. statistical circa and minn. rule. j prohibit us from requiring litigation to be conducted outside minnesota. in addition nothing in the disclosure document or agreement can abrogate or reduce any of your rights as provided for in minnesota statutes chapter county or your rights to any procedure forum or remedies provided for by the laws of the jurisdiction. with respect to franchises governed by minnesota law the franchisor will comply with minn. statistical second circa subds. and which require except in certain specified cases that a franchisee be given days notice of termination with days to cure and days notice for non renewal of the franchise agreement. the sixth seventh and eighth paragraphs of item are deleted and replaced with the following the franchise agreement requires to indemnify you against liability from your authorized use of the licensed marks if you have promptly notified of any such claim or proceeding and as long as you are in compliance with the franchise agreement when the claim arose. as owner of the licensed marks has the exclusive right to control administrative proceedings or litigation concerning the licensed marks. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated disclosure required by new hampshire addendum the new hampshire distributorship act makes it unlawful to sell any distributorship in this state which is subject to that act without first providing to the prospective distributor at least days prior to the execution by such distributor of any binding distributorship agreement or at least days prior to the payment of any consideration whichever occurs first copy of this disclosure statement together with copy of all proposed agreements relating to the sale of the distributorship. if these documents have not been presented to you in accordance with these requirements you may void the agreement within days by sending notice of your intention to the grantor by united states mail return receipt requested. upon receipt of the notice the grantor must refund all monies you have paid for the distributorship plus interest. this disclosure statement contains summary only of certain material provisions of the distributorship agreement. the agreement should be carefully read for an understanding of all rights and obligations of both grantor and distributor. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated addendum to the franchise disclosure document pursuant to maryland franchise registration and disclosure law the following provisions supersede any inconsistent provisions in the disclosure document and apply to all franchises the offer and sale of which are governed by the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. item of the disclosure document is amended to provide that all fees paid to the company and or its affiliates including the nonrefundable deposit and payments for goods and services received from the company and or its affiliates before the business opens are not due or payable until the company fulfills all of its material preopening obligations to franchisee. the summary columns of item. of the disclosure document pertaining to requirements for franchisee to renew or extend and item. of the disclosure document pertaining to conditions of our approval of transfer are both supplemented to state that pursuant to comar. line any general release required as a condition of renewal sale and or assignment transfer of the franchise agreement is void and any such void provision shall not apply to any liability under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. the summary column of item. of the disclosure document pertaining to cause defined defaults that cannot be cured is supplemented to state that any provision in the franchise agreement which terminates the franchise upon the bankruptcy of the franchisee may not be enforceable under federal bankruptcy law. section of the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law requires that any claims arising under that law be brought within years after the grant of the franchise. any provision in the franchise agreement or related agreements which operates to waive your right to file a lawsuit alleging a cause of action arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law in any court of competent jurisdiction in the state of maryland is void and you therefore may sue in maryland for claims arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. any acknowledgments or representations by you which disclaim the occurrence and or acknowledge the non occurrence of acts that would constitute a violation of the franchise law are not intended to nor shall they act as a release estoppel or waiver of any liability incurred under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. nothing in the franchise agreement or in any related agreement is intended to disclaim the representations franchisor made in the franchise disclosure document. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated addendum to the disclosure document pursuant to the new york franchises law. the following information is added to the cover page of the franchise disclosure document information comparing franchisors is available. call. the state administrators listed in exhibit or your public library for sources of information. registration of this franchise by new york state does not mean that new york state recommends it or has verified the information in this franchise disclosure document. if you learn that anything in the franchise disclosure document is untrue contact the federal trade commission and new york state department of law bureau of investor protection and securities broadway road liberty street floor new york new york. the franchisor may if it chooses negotiate with you about items covered in the franchise disclosure document. however the franchisor cannot use the negotiating process to prevail upon prospective franchisee to accept terms which are less favorable than those set forth in this franchise disclosure document. the following is added at the end of item except as provided above with regard to the franchisor its predecessor a person identified in item or an affiliate offering franchises under the franchisor principal trademark. no such party has an administrative criminal or civil action pending against that person alleging a felony a violation of a franchise antitrust or securities law fraud embezzlement fraudulent conversion misappropriation of property unfair or deceptive practices or comparable civil or misdemeanor allegations. no such party has pending actions other than routine litigation incidental to the business which are significant in the context of the number of franchisees and the size nature or financial condition of the franchise system or its business operations. no such party has been convicted of a felony or pleaded nolo contendere to a felony charge or within the year period immediately preceding the application for registration has been convicted of or pleaded nolo contendere to a misdemeanor charge or has been the subject of a civil action alleging violation of a franchise antifraud or securities law fraud embezzlement fraudulent conversion or misappropriation of property or unfair or deceptive practices or comparable allegations. no such party is subject to a currently effective injunctive or restrictive order or decree relating to the franchise or under a federal state or canadian franchise securities antitrust trade regulation or trade practice law resulting from a concluded or pending action or proceeding brought by a public agency or is subject to any currently effective order of any national securities association or national securities exchange as defined in the securities and exchange act of suspending or expelling such person from membership in such association or exchange or is subject to a currently effective injunctive or restrictive order relating to any other business activity as a result of an action brought by a public agency or department including without limitation actions affecting a license as a real estate broker or sales agent. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated the following is added to the end of item neither the franchisor its affiliate its predecessor officers or general partner during the year period immediately before the date of the offering circular a filed as debtor or had filed against it a petition to start an action under the. bankruptcy code obtained a discharge of its debts under the bankruptcy code or was a principal officer of a company or a general partner in a partnership that either filed as a debtor or had filed against it a petition to start an action under the. bankruptcy code or that obtained a discharge of its debts under the. bankruptcy code during or within year after that officer or general partner of the franchisor held this position in the company or partnership. the following is added to the end of item the initial franchise fee constitutes part of our general operating funds and will be used as such in our discretion. the following is added to the end of the summary sections of item titled requirements for franchisee to renew or extend and item entitled conditions for franchisor approval of transfer however to the extent required by applicable law all rights you enjoy and any causes of action arising in your favor from the provisions of article of the general business law of the state of new york and the regulations issued thereunder shall remain in force it being the intent of this proviso that the non waiver provisions of general business law sections. and. be satisfied. the following language replaces the summary section of item titled termination by franchisee you may terminate the agreement on any grounds available by law. the following is added to the end of the summary section of item titled assignment of contract by franchisor however no assignment will be made except to an assignee who in good faith and judgment of the franchisor is willing and financially able to assume the franchisor obligations under the franchise agreement. the following is added to the end of the summary sections of item titled choice of forum and item titled choice of law the foregoing choice of law should not be considered a waiver of any right conferred upon the franchisor or upon the franchisee by article of the general business law of the state of new york. gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated disclosures required by north carolina law the state of north carolina has not reviewed and does not approve recommend endorse or sponsor any business opportunity. the information contained in this disclosure has not been verified by the state. if you have any questions about this investment see an attorney before you sign contract or agreement. if the franchisor fails to deliver the product equipment or supplies necessary to begin substantial operation of the business within days of the delivery dated stated in your contract the franchisee may notify the franchisor in writing and demand that the contract be cancelled. franchise offering circular for prospective franchisees required by the state of north carolina happy healthy products incorporated dixie highway suite boca raton florida gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated disclosures required by south carolina the state of south carolina has not reviewed and does not approve recommend endorse or sponsor any business opportunity. the information contained in this disclosure has not been verified by the state. if you have any questions about this investment see an attorney before you sign contract or agreement. in recognition of the requirements of the south carolina business opportunity sales act hereby agrees to supplement the disclosure document as follows. item of this disclosure document is amended to add the following if the seller fails to deliver the product equipment or supplies necessary to begin substantial operation of the business within forty five days of the delivery date stated in your contract you may notify the seller in writing and demand that the contract be cancelled. the name and address of the person to serve as state agent for service of process in the state of south carolina is as follows robert gutterman seabridge court surfside beach south carolina salesperson information name address title linda kerr kamm south dixie highway suite boca raton floruit president leonard. murray south dixie highway suite boca raton floruit vice president of operations leslie frazer south dixie highway suite boca raton floruit compliance director gregorycarlie gorneysiegel south dixie highway suite boca raton floruit national sales managerindependent marketing consultant carliestacey siegelgendal south dixie highway suite boca raton floruit national sales manager and sales marketing consultant gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated exhibit agreement of mutual release agreement of mutual release this agreement is made and entered into this date between happy healthy products incorporated a corporation hereinafter for itself its successors and assigns referred to as franchisor having its principal place of business at. dixie highway suite boca raton floruit and name a business name with its principal place of business at address hereinafter referred to as franchisees. whereas franchisees executed a franchise agreement dated ofa signed between franchisees and franchisor for the operation of a fruitful franchise at msa name msa the franchise agreement and whereas the franchisees have dissolved its business its rights title and interest in the franchise agreement pursuant to the franchise agreement and whereas franchisor has granted its approval to the dissolution of the franchise interests. now therefore in consideration of the mutual covenantscontainedherein and other valuable considerations which the partioihereto acknowledge each of til parties for themselves and anyone claiming through or under tbem hereby reinie release and forever discharge franchisor and all franchisor officers directors agents and representatives from any and all manner of claims accounts debts demands damages losses causes of action actions liabilities or suits whether in law or inequity whether present or future whether accrued or which may hereafter accrue and whether known or hereafler discovered which franchisees or any one claiming through or under them have or may have against franchisor its officers directors agents and representatives to and including the date of this release arising out of in any way connected either cfitectly or indirectly with the franchise agreement or the franchise relationship includ without limitation any such claims growing out of or arising or existing in connection with theiexecution of the franchise agreement or any of the terms or provisions thereof or by reason dfilireach or alleged brcach or conduct or activity resulting in the breach or alleged breach of any terms and provisions of the franchise agreement including without limitation any liability foi money paid or to be paid by either party to the other in connection therewith. furthermore franchisor for itself and anyone claiming through or under it hereby remise release and forever discharge franchisees and all franchisees officers directors agents and representatives from any and all manner of claims accounts debts demands damages losses causes of action actions liabilities or suits whether in law or in equity whether present or future whether accrued or which may hereafter accrue and whether known or hereafter discovered which franchisor or any one claiming through or under it have or may have against franchisees their officers directors agents and representatives to and including the date of this release arising out of in any way connected either directly or indirectly with the franchise agreement or the franchise relationship including without limitation any such claims growing out of or arising or existing in connection with the execution of the franchise agreement or any of the terms or provisions thereof or by reason of breach or alleged breach or conduct or activity. resulting in the breach or alleged breach of any of the terms and provisions of the franchise agreement including without limitation any liability for money paid or to be paid by either party to the other in connection therewith. in witness whereof the parties have executed sealed and delivered this agreement the date and year set forth above. franchisor by linda kamm title president date franchisee byi title date datc. maryland addendum to agreement of mutual release this addendum to the agreement of mutual release by and between happy healthy products incorporated and franchisee dated the agreement is made and entered into on notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in the agreement the following provision shall supersede and apply to all franchises the offer and sale of which are governed by the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law medicinae doctor code annual bus. register to any provision in the agreement which operates to waive franchisee right to file a lawsuit alleging a cause of action arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law in any court of competent jurisdiction in the state of maryland is void and franchisee therefore may sue in maryland for claims arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. pursuant to comar. line no person may require that franchisee provide a release from liability under the provisions of the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law as part of a franchise agreement or as a condition of the sale renewal or assignment of a franchise. accordingly all such representations requiring prospective franchisees to assent to a release estoppel or waiver of liability are not intended to nor shall they act as a release estoppel or waiver of any liability incurred under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. nothing in the agreement or in any related agreement is intended to disclaim the representations franchisor made in the franchise disclosure document. any limitation on the period of time arbitration and or litigation claims must be brought shall not act to reduce the year statute of limitations afforded to a franchisee for bringing a claim arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. any claims arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law must be brought within years after the grant of the franchise. nothing in this agreement or in any related agreement is intended to disclaim the representations franchisor made in the franchise disclosure document. this release shall not apply to any liability under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. in witness whereof the parties hereto have duly executed this addendum under seal on the date first written above happy healthy incorporated by date title franchisee by date. maryland addendum to agreement of mutual release this addendum to the agreement of mutual release by and between happy healthy products incorporated and franchisee dated the agreement is made and entered into on. notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in the agreement the following provision shall supersede and apply to all franchises the offer and sale of which are governed by the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law medicinae doctor code annual bus. register to any provision in the agreement which operates to waive franchisee right to file a lawsuit alleging a cause of action arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law in any court of competent jurisdiction in the state of maryland is void and franchisee therefore may sue in maryland for claims arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. pursuant to comar. line no person may require that franchisee provide a release from liability under the provisions of the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law as part of a franchise agreement or as a condition of the sale renewal or assignment of a franchise. accordingly all such representations requiring prospective franchisees to assent to a release estoppel or waiver of liability are not intended to nor shall they act as a release estoppel or waiver of any liability incurred under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. nothing in the agreement or in any related agreement is intended to disclaim the representations franchisor made in the franchise disclosure document. any limitation on the period of time arbitration and or litigation claims must be brought shall not act to reduce the year statute of limitations afforded to a franchisee for bringing a claim arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. any claims arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law must be brought within years after the grant of the franchise. nothing in this agreement or in any related agreement is intended to disclaim the representations franchisor made in the franchise disclosure document. this release shall not apply to any liability under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. in witness whereof the parties hereto have duly executed this addendum under seal on the date first written above happy healthy incorporated by date title franchisee by date gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated exhibit confidentiality agreement and non disclosure agreement gp verb verb happy and healthy products incorporated confidentiality and non disclosure agreement whereas the undersigned acknowledges that in accordance with section. of that certain franchise agreement dated the franchise agreement entered into between franchisee and happy healthy products incorporated in order to induce to permit the franchised business to be operated by a person other than franchisee franchisee must cause the undersigned to execute this confidentiality and non disclosure agreement agreement for the benefit of. whereas the undersigned check and complete appropriate box is an employee of franchisee. is associated with franchisee in the following manner now therefore for good and valuable consideration the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged the parties do hereby covenant and agree as follows. nondisclosure of confidential information. a the undersigned agrees not to disclose duplicate sell reveal divulge publish furnish or communicate either directly or indirectly any confidential information as defined below to any other person firm or entity unless authorized in writing by. the undersigned agrees not to use any confidential information for his or her own personal gain or to further the purposes of others whether or not the confidential information has been conceived originated discovered or developed in whole or in part by the undersigned or represents the undersigned work product. to the extent the undersigned has assisted in the preparation of any information which considers to be confidential information or has prepared or created such information by himself or herself the undersigned hereby assigns any rights that he or she may have in such information as creator to including all ideas made or conceived by the undersigned. the undersigned acknowledges that the use publication or duplication of the confidential information for any purpose not authorized by this agreement constitutes an unfair method of competition by the undersigned. the provisions of this paragraph. shall apply forever surviving the expiration or termination of all contracts between and franchisee. the provisions concerning non disclosure of confidential information shall not apply if disclosure of confidential information is legally compelled in a judicial or administrative proceeding provided the undersigned shall have used its best efforts and shall have afforded the opportunity to obtain an appropriate protective order or other assurance satisfactory to of confidential treatment for the information required to be disclosed. the term confidential information includes without limitation the following any information or knowledge concerning the operation of the franchised business the contents of the manual knowledge of pricing sales profit performance or other results of operations of any individual franchised business group of franchised businesses or the entire chain information or knowledge regarding supply relationships demographic data for determining sites and territories the results of customer surveys and promotional programs and in general standards methods procedures specifications customer data pricing and cost gp verb verb happy and healthy products incorporated data information systems and knowledge about the operation of franchised businesses or franchise system whether it is now known or exists or is acquired or created in the future and whether or not the information is included in the manual. excludes i information which franchisee or the undersigned can demonstrate came to its his or her attention independent of the rights granted by and prior to disclosure of the information in the manual or otherwise and ii information that li agrees is or has become generally known in the public domain except where public knowledge is the result of wrongful disclosure whether or not deliberate or inadvertent. return of proprietary materials. upon expiration or termination of the franchise agreement the undersigned shall surrender to franchisee or if directed by directly to all materials in the possession of the undersigned relating or concerning any confidential information. the undersigned expressly acknowledges that such materials shall be and remain the sole property of. irreparable harm to. a the undersigned acknowledges and agrees that will suffer irreparable injury not capable of precise measurement in monetary damages if it discloses or misuses any confidential information or if the undersigned breaches the covenants set forth in this agreement. accordingly in the event of a breach of this agreement by the undersigned the undersigned consents to entry of interim relief including without limitation the entry of a temporary restraining order preliminary injunction permanent injunction writings of attachment appointment of a receiver and any other equitable relief which the court deems necessary in order to prevent irreparable injury all without the requirement that bond be posted. the undersigned agrees that the award of equitable remedies to in the event of such breach is reasonable and necessary for the protection of the business and the goodwill of h validity conformity with applicable law. wherever possible each provision of this agreement shall be interpreted in a manner as to be valid under applicable law but if any provision of this agreement shall be invalid or prohibited thereunder the provision shall be ineffective only to the extent of the prohibition or invalidity without invalidating the remainder of this agreement. miscellaneous. a any waiver granted to the undersigned by excusing or reducing any obligation or restriction imposed under this agreement shall be evidenced by a writing executed by in order to be effective and shall only be effective to the extent specifically allowed in such writing. no waiver granted by shall constitute a continuing waiver. any waiver granted by shall be without prejudice to any other rights may have. the rights and remedies granted to are cumulative. no delay on the part of in exercising any right or remedy shall preclude from fully exercising such right or remedy or any other right or remedy. this agreement sets forth the entire agreement made by the undersigned pertaining to the subject matter hereof fully superseding any and all prior agreements or understandings that may exist between the undersigned and pertaining to such subject matter. no amendment change modification or variance to or from the terms and conditions set forth in this agreement shall be binding on the undersigned unless it is set forth in a writing and duly executed by the undersigned and. gp verb verb happy and healthy products incorporated this agreement shall be binding on the undersigned heirs executors successors and assigns as though originally executed by such persons. the parties agree that all capitalized terms in this agreement shall have the same meaning assigned to them in any franchise agreement between and franchisee and incorporate such definitions herein. in witness whereof the undersigned has entered into this agreement as of the date shown above the undersigned signature. dated signature print name gp verb verb happy and healthy products incorporated maryland addendum to confidentiality and non disclosure agreement this addendum to the confidentiality and non disclosure agreement by and between happy healthy products incorporated and franchisee dated the agreement is made and entered into on. notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in the agreement the following provision shall supersede and apply to all franchises the offer and sale of which are governed by the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law medicinae doctor code annual bus. register to any provision in the agreement which operates to waive franchisee right to file a lawsuit alleging a cause of action arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law in any court of competent jurisdiction in the state of maryland is void and franchisee therefore may sue in maryland for claims arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. pursuant to comar. line no person may require that franchisee provide a release from liability under the provisions of the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law as part of a franchise agreement or as a condition of the sale renewal or assignment of a franchise. accordingly all such representations requiring prospective franchisees to assent to a release estoppel or waiver of liability are not intended to nor shall they act as a release estoppel or waiver of any liability incurred under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. nothing in the agreement or in any related agreement is intended to disclaim the representations made in the franchise disclosure document. any limitation on the period of time arbitration and or litigation claims must be brought shall not act to reduce the year statute of limitations afforded to a franchisee for bringing a claim arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. any claims arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law must be brought within years after the grant of the franchise. nothing in this agreement or in any related agreement is intended to disclaim the representations franchisor made in the franchise disclosure document. the general release required as a condition of renewal sale and or assignment transfer shall not apply to any liability under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. in witness whereof the parties hereto have duly executed this addendum under seal on the date first written above happy healthy incorporated by date title franchisee by date gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated exhibit receipts gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated receipt for franchisee this disclosure document summarizes certain provisions of the franchise agreement and other information in plain language. read this disclosure document and all agreements carefully. if happy healthy products incorporated offers you a franchise it must provide this disclosure document to you days before you sign a binding agreement or make a payment with the franchisor or an affiliate in connection with the proposed franchise sale. new york and iowa require that we give you this disclosure document at the earlier of the first personal meeting or business days calendar days for iowa before the execution of the franchise or other agreements or payment of any consideration that relates to the franchise relationship. michigan requires that we give you this disclosure document at least business days before the execution of any binding franchise or other agreement or the payment of any consideration whichever occurs first. if happy healthy products incorporated does not deliver this disclosure document on time or if it contains a false or misleading statement or a material omission a violation of federal law and state law may have occurred and should be reported to the federal trade commission washington. and the state agency listed on exhibit. the franchise sellers are linda kerr kamm president leslie frazer compliance director gregory gorney national sales manager leonard murray vice president of operations carlie siegel stacey gendal national sales manager and sales marketing consultant located at. dixie highway suite boca raton floruit telephone. any additional individual franchise sellers involved in offering franchises are happy and healthy authorizes the respective state agencies identified on exhibit to receive service of process for it in the particular state. have received a disclosure document issued february april that included the following exhibits. list of state administrators. franchise agreement and state addenda. financial statements of happy healthy guaranty llc guarantee of performance of happy healthy guaranty llc. list of franchisees. list of former franchisees. freezer contract. operations manual table of contents. security agreement. state addenda to franchise disclosure document. agreement of mutual release. confidentiality agreement and non disclosure agreement. receipts prospective franchisee the address of the prospective franchisee is by signature please print print name of signatory date gp verb gp verb happy and healthy products incorporated return to happy and healthy products incorporated dixie highway suite boca raton floruit receipt for franchisor this disclosure document summarizes certain provisions of the franchise agreement and other information in plain language. read this disclosure document and all agreements carefully. if happy healthy products incorporated offers you a franchise it must provide this disclosure document to you days before you sign a binding agreement or make a payment with the franchisor or an affiliate in connection with the proposed franchise sale. new york and iowa require that we give you this disclosure document at the earlier of the first personal meeting or business days calendar days for iowa before the execution of the franchise or other agreements or payment of any consideration that relates to the franchise relationship. michigan requires that we give you this disclosure document at least business days before the execution of any binding franchise or other agreement or the payment of any consideration whichever occurs first. if happy healthy products incorporated does not deliver this disclosure document on time or if it contains a false or misleading statement or a material omission a violation of federal law and state law may have occurred and should be reported to the federal trade commission washington. and the state agency listed on exhibit. the franchise sellers are linda kerr kamm president leslie frazer compliance director gregory gorney national sales manager leonard murray vice president of operations carlie siegel stacey gendal national sales manager and sales marketing consultant located at. dixie highway suite boca raton floruit telephone. any additional individual franchise sellers involved in offering franchises are happy and healthy authorizes the respective state agencies identified on exhibit to receive service of process for it in the particular state. have received a disclosure document issued february april that included the following exhibits. list of state administrators. franchise agreement and state addenda. financial statements of happy healthy guaranty llc guarantee of performance of happy healthy guaranty llc. list of franchisees. list of former franchisees. freezer contract. operations manual table of contents. security agreement. state addenda to franchise disclosure document. agreement of mutual release. confidentiality agreement and non disclosure agreement. receipts prospective franchisee the address of the prospective franchisee is by signature please print print name of signatory date item other fees item estimated initial investmentyour estimated initial investment item outlets and franchisee information table number