minnesota of commerce th place east suite street paul minnesota commission merce.state. us. fax. an equal opportunity employer january doris adkins carter carter tani east roosevelt road suite wheaton illinois re happy joes franchising incorporated happy joe franchising incorporated franchise agreement dear mississippi carter the annual report has been reviewed and is in compliance with minnesota statute chapter county and minnesota rules chapter. this means that there continues to be an effective registration statement on file and that the franchisor may offer and sell the above referenced franchise in minnesota. the franchisor is not required to escrow franchise fees post a franchise surety bond or defer receipt of franchise fees during this registration period. as a reminder the next annual report is due within days after the franchisor fiscal year end which is september. sincerely mike rothman commissioner by daniel sexton commerce analyst supervisor registration division mr des dlw state of minnesota department of commerce registration division in the matter of the registration of happy joe franchising incorporated franchise agreement by happy joes franchising incorporated order amending registration whereas an applicauion to axend the i a i and amendment fee have been i it is hereby ordered that the i a i dated june i amended as of the date set below. mike rothman commissioner department of commerce th place east suite street paul minnesota date january uniform franchise registration apptication file no state north innesota fee south ? ! ! january application for check only one i registration of an offer or sale of franchises ren ewal application or annual report pre effective amendment post effective amendment. name of franchisor happy joe franchislng incorporated name of the franchise offering happy joe and or happy joe pizza and ice cream parlor and or happy joe franchising incorporated franchisor principal business address happy joe drive bettendorf iowa. name and address of franchisor agent in this state authorized to receive process minnesota commissioner of commerce th place east suite street paul. minnesota the states in which this application is or will be shortly on file illinois indiana minnesota north dakota south dakota wisconsin. name address telephone and facsimile numbers and mail address of person to whom communication regarding this application should be directed doris adkins carter carter tani roosevelt road suite wheaton illinois fax dcarter cartertani commission minnesota certification certify and swear under penalty of law that have read and know the contents of this application including the franchise disclosure document with an issuance date of january attached as an exhibit and that all material facts stated in all those documents are accurate and those documents do not contain any material omissions. further certify that am duly authorized to make this certification on behalf of the franchisor and that do so upon my personal knowledge. signed at bettendorf iowa on thisx day of january. franchisor happy joe franchising incorporated an iowa corporation title president state of iowa county of so otv saints personally appeared before me this day of january the above named larry whitty to me known to be the person who executed the foregoing application as president of the above named applicant and being first duly sworn stated upon oath that application and all exhibits submitted herewith are true and correct. notary seal katheryn mumma commission number my commission expires october notar signature my commission expires bf sod doris adkins carter christine. tani january carter tani attorneys at law. roosevelt road suite wheaton illinois cart ertani.com two day ups telephone fax dcarter cartertani.com daniel. sexton commerce analyst ii registration division minnesota department of commerce th place east suite street paul minnesota re happy joe franchising incorporated file number annual report renewal application dear mister sexton enclosed are the following materials comprising the annuel report renewl application for the franchise registration of happy joe franchising incorporated check in the amount of for the filing fee for a renewal and amendment. uniform franchise registration application with certification. franchisor costs and sources of funds. uniform franchise consent to service of process. franchise seller disclosure forms for lawrence. whitty larry. whitty timothy anderson and kristel whitty ersan. auditor consent letter. one black lined copy of the updated happy joe franchise disclosure document showing the revisions that have been made since the last filing. copies of the following print ads which my client would like to file franchise opportunity! exciting opportunity! restaurant manager owner and happy joe is seeking an experienced restaurant development or individual for. if you have any questions or need any additional material to process this application please don hesitate to give me a call. respectfully submitted doris adkins carter enc. cc happy joe franchising incorporated happy joe franchising incorporated franchisor costs and source of funds. disclose the franchisor total costs for performing its pre opening obligations to provide goods or services in connection with establishing each franchised business including real estate improvements equipment inventory training and other items stated in the offering category costs real estate improvements equipment inventory training other describe general legal fees manuals site selection lease approval sales promotion total. state separately the sources of all required funds these costs are covered by general operating revenues which include mcome from royalties franchise fees and franchisor working capital. minnesota uniform franchise consent to service of process happy joe franchising incorporated a corporation organized under the laws of the state of iowa the franchisor irrevocably appoints the officers of the states designated below and their successors in such office its attorney in those states for service of notice process or pleading in action or proceeding against it arising out of or in connection with the sale of franchises or a violation of the franchise laws of that state and consents that an action or proceeding against it may be commenced in a court of competent jurisdiction and proper venue within that state by service of process upon this officer with the same effect as if the undersigned was organized or created under the laws of that state and had lawfully been served with process in that state. we have checked below each state in which this application is or will be shortly on file and provided a duplicate original bearing an original signature to each state. california commissioner of corporations north dakota securities commissioner hawaii commissioner of securities rhode island director department of business regulation illinois attorney general south dakota director of the division of securities indiana secretarv of state virginia clerk virginia state corporation commission maryland securities commissioner washington director of financial institutions minnesota commissioner of commerce new york secretarv of state wisconsin administrator division of securities department of financial institutions please mail or send a copy of any notice process or pleading served under this consent to larrv whittv happy joe franchising incorporated happy joe drive bettendorf. iowa dated januarv jj. happy joe franchising incorporated president minnesota state of iowa county of saints on this day of january before maine the undersigned officer personally appeared larry whitty known to me to be as president of the above named applicant and that he as such officer being authorized to do so executed the foregoing instrument for the purposed therein contained by signing the name of the applicant by themselves as such officer. notary seal towa katheryn mumma commisston number my comroisrion expires october. notary signature my commission expires abelmann associates. certified ptttlic accountants independent auditor consent the board of directors happy joe franchising incorporated we consent to the use in the franchise disclosure document issued by happy joe franchising incorporated on january as it maybe amended of our report dated december relating to the financial statements of happy joe franchising incorporated for the period ended september. bettendorf iowa december ec river drive suite. bettendorf. ptong fax franchise disclosure document happy joe franchising incorporated an iowa corporation happy joe drive bettendorf iowa tima happyjoes.com the franchise is a restaurant providing pizza ice cream and related foor items including breakfast foods. you are granted the right to use the mark happy joe. the total investment necessary to begin operations of a happy joe full size restaurant is tq q to. this includes the. initial franchise fee paid to us and. for certain initial supplies that mav be purchased from us. the total investment necessary to begin operations of a happv joe delco facility is to. this includes the initial franchise fee paid to us and for certain initial supplies that may be purchased from us. the total investment nocessary to begin operations of a happy joo delco facility is to. this includeo tho initial franchise feo paid to us and for cortain initial supplioe that may be purchaood from us the total investment to begin operations of a happy joe satellite ranges from to. this includes the initial franchise fee and for certain initial supplies that may be purchased from us. the total investment necessary to include or later add the offering of rudy menu items to the happy joe restaurant is to. this includes the that must be paid to us. the total investment necessary to begin operations of a happy joe area developer business ranges from to plus franchise fees plus the cost to establish the first franchised facility. this includes the initial development fee equal to the initial franchise fee for the first franchise plus for each additional franchise to be developed. this disclosure document summarizes certain provisions of your franchise agreement and other information in plain english. read this disclosure document and all accompanying agreements carefully. you must receive this disclosure document at least calendar days before you sign a binding agreement with or make any payment to the franchisor or an affiliate in connection with the proposed franchise sale. note however that no governmental agency has verified the information contained in this document. you may wish to receive your disclosure document in another fomaat that is more convenient for you. to hj fdd discuss availability of disclosures in different formats contact thomas anderson at happy joe drive bettendorf iowa and. the terms of your contract will govem your franchise relationship. don rely on the disclosure document alone to understand your contract. read all of your contract carefully. show your contract and this disclosure document to an advisor like a lav er or an accountant. buying a franchise is a complex investment. the information in this disclosure document can help you make up your mind. more information on franchising such as a consumer guide to buying a franchise which can help you understand how to use this disclosure document is available from the federal trade commission. you can contact the ftc at ftc help or by writing to the ftc at pennsylvania avenue north-west washington. you can also visit the ftc home page at vww.ftc.gov for additional infomnation. call your state agency or visit your public library for other sources of infonnation on franchising. there may be laws on franchising in your state. ask your state agencies about them. issuance date january. hj fdd state cover page your state may have a franchise law that requires a franchisor to register or file with a state franchise administrator before offering or selling in your state. registration of franchise by state does not mean that the state recommends the franchise or has verified the information in this disclosure document. call the state franchise administrator listed in exhibit for information about the franchisor or about franchising in your state. many franchise agreements do not allow you to renew unconditionally after the initial term expires. you may have to sign new agreement with different terms and conditions in order to continue to operate your business. before you buy consider what rights you have to renew your franchise if any and what terms you might have to accept in order to renew. please consider the following risk factors before you buy this franchise. the franchise agreement requires that all disagreements be settled by litigation in scott county. iowa. out of state litigation may force you to accept less favorable settlement for disputes. it may also cost you more to litigate with company in iowa than in your home state. the franchise agreement states that iowa law governs the agreement and this law may not provide the same protections and benefits as local law. you may want to compare these laws. there may be other risks concerning this franchise. we use the services of one or more franchise brokers or referral sources to assist us in selling our franchise. franchise broker or referral source represents us not you. we pay this person a fee for selling our franchise or referring you to us. you should be sure to do your own investigation of the franchise. effective dates illinois indiana minnesota north dakota south dakota wisconsin hj fdd table of contents item page. the franchisor and any parents predecessors and affiliates. business experience. litigation. bankruptcy. initial fees. other fees. estimated initial investment. restrictions on sources of products and services. franchisee obligations. financing. franchisor assistance advertising computer systems and training. territory. trademarks. patents copyrights and proprietary information. obligation to participate in the actual operation of the franchise business. restrictions on what the franchisee may sell. renewal termination transfer and dispute resolution. public figures. financial performance representations. outlets and franchisee information. financial statements. contracts. receipt last pages exhibits. financial statements. franchise agreement with exhibits exhibit description of designated delivery area exhibit authorization for electronic transfer of funds exhibit guaranty and assumption of obligations exhibit conversion franchise addendum exhibit delco colorado brand facility franchise addendum exhibit collateral assignment of lease exhibit conditional assignment of telephone numbers hj fdd exhibits cont. area development agreement. satellite location addendum. list of state agents for service of process and state administrators. table of contents of the manual. list of happy joe restaurants. list of certain former franchisees. installment note and security agreement. rudy tacos amendment to franchise agreement. state addendum if applicable hj fdd item. the franchisor and any parents. predecessors and affiliates company to simplify the language in this disclosure document company means happy joe franchising incorporated the franchisor of this business. you means the person who buys the franchise and includes your owners if you are a corporation partnership or other entity. company was incorporated in the state of iowa on august. company principal place of business is happy joe drive bettendorf iowa. company does business under the name happy joe and happy joe pizza ice cream parlor and its corporate name happy joe franchising incorporated company parent affiliate and predecessor happy joe pizza ice cream parlor incorporated offered and sold franchises for happy joe restaurants and itself owned and operated happy joe restaurants from to september. in august the owners of happy joe pizza ice cream parlor incorporated established a new corporation happy joe franchising incorporated and spun off all of the company franchise operations to the new entity which is a wholly owned subsidiary of happy joe pizza ice cream parlor incorporated on september happy joe pizza ice cream parlor incorporated assigned to happy joe franchising incorporated all its right title and interest in and to the happy joe proprietary products the system of operation for happy joe restaurants and all of the trademarks service marks logos and trade names used in the operation of happy joe restaurants. it also assigned to happy joe franchising incorporated all its right title and interest in franchise agreements. happy joe pizza ice cream parlor incorporated continues to own and operate happy joe restaurants. its principal place of business is happy joe drive bettendorf iowa. company has no other affiliates which offer franchises in any line of business or which are providing goods or services to happy joe franchisees. list of company agents for service of process in various states is contained in exhibit to this disclosure document. company business activities company business activities include the grant of franchises for happy joe restaurants. company currently offers types of franchises to new franchisees. the first is a full size restaurant offering breakfast lunch and dinner and providing on premises dining carry out drive up window and delivery service featuring birthday party and fun center services and providing premium quality pizza ice cream pasta spaghetti fresh baked sandwiches salads breakfast items and other food and beverage products prepared according to specified recipes and procedures full size restaurant. the second franchise offering is a facility offering predominantly delivery service and carry out service only with a drive up window but which may have limited on premises dining of up to approximately seats herein hj fdd g referred to as delco facility for delivery and carry out service since this unit incorporates the features of the carry out franchise concept into the delivery only franchise unit. some delco facilities may be located on a premises where other brands of products and services are being offered delco colorado brand facility. company currently offers to existing happy joe franchisees the right to establish a satellite location in conjunction with the franchisee existing full size restaurant or delco facility. the satellite will offer primarily carry out service and will be located within a store restaurant or other business or high traffic facility. the satellite does not offer delivery service has a more limited menu and does not offer breakfast. the satellite is smaller in size than the full size restaurant and delco facility and may or may not have some limited seating. the existing franchisee must sign a satellite location addendum to be granted the right to open the satellite. unless otherwise specified franchised facility as used in this disclosure document shall include the full size restaurant the delco facility and the satellite. company has a proprietary line of specially formulated pizza dough spices sauces ice cream ice cream toppings and other food products and equipment which will be used in the operation of the franchised facility proprietary products. the franchised facility will operate under the trade name happy joe the trademark happy joe plus the design associated logos commercial symbols and other trade names trademarks and service marks as company designates now or in the future mark. company offers to qualified new happy joe franchisees and to existing happy joe franchisees who are in compliance with their franchise agreements the right to sell rudy tacos menu items under the mark rudy tacos in the happy joe franchised facility. on december company entered into a license agreement with larosa. incorporated larosa for the right to sublicense to certain happy joe franchisee the right to sell rudy tacos menu items prepared using larosa proprietary preparation methods under larosa mark rudy tacos rudy tacos menu items. the menu items may include tacos tostadas enchiladas burritos sanchos tamales nachos chimichangas quesadillas and related mexican food. new or existing franchise must sign a rudy tacos amendment to franchise agreement to be granted the right to sell these additional menu offerings. this additional license is not available to a satellite. in addition this license will not be available in all areas pursuant to the license agreement between company and larosa. company offers a conversion franchise to applicants who meet company current qualifications for conversions and who presently own and operate a restaurant facility similar to one of the types of franchised facilities conversion franchisee. you must sign both a franchise agreement and conversion addendum to franchise agreement and you will have the same rights duties and. obligations as required in the franchise agreement unless stated differently in this disclosure document. with the granting of franchises. company provides start up and on going operational assistance to you as described in item of this disclosure document. company also offers options to develop and operate a minimum of franchised facilities under an area development agreement. if you sign an area development agreement you will receive a hj fdd development territory development territory where you establish individual franchises under separate franchise agreements according to a development schedule development schedule and by the dates specified on the development schedule option period. the happy joe franchise each franchised facility operates under a unique system system. the distinguishing characteristics of the system currently include distinctive interior and exterior layout design and color scheme exclusively designed signage decorations furnishings and materials special recipes formulae menus and food and beverage designations a collection of confidential operations manuals relating to the franchised facility manual which may be contained in or more volumes the proprietary products food and beverage storage preparation and service procedures operating procedures for sanitation and maintenance methods and techniques for inventory and cost controls record keeping and reporting personnel management purchasing sales promotion and advertising. company may change improve or develop the system periodically. you will operate the franchised facility from location premises in an exclusive area exclusive territory. the happy joe franchised facility will offer its products and services to the general public and will compete with national regional or local restaurants and stores and other businesses offering products and merchandise similar to those offered from the happy joe franchised facility. company believes the market for the products and services to be offered by a happy joe franchised facility is a developed market. there are no laws or regulations that affect the franchised facility beyond those affecting restaurants generally. you should check with your attorney and governing board of health for local regulations on the preparation and sale of food products and for beer and wine licensing procedures. business experience company has not conducted businesses similar to the type of business that you will operate. however happy joe pizza ice cream parlor incorporated which is company parent company affiliate and predecessor has conducted business similar to the type of businesses that you will operate since. it currently operates happy joe restaurants. company has been offering franchises for the franchised facility since september. compcjnv predecessorhappy joe pizza ice cream parlor. incorporated hereinafter company affiliate offered franchises similar to the franchised facility from to september. neither company nor rcompany affiliate have offered franchises for any other business. hj fdd item. business experience chairman of the board. director and chief executive officer lawrence. whittv mister lawrence. whitty has been chairman of the board and chief executive officer of happy joe franchising incorporated since its inception. mister whitty has been the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of happy joe pizza ice cream parlor incorporated since. before that time he operated the first happy joe restaurant and offered franchises. director and president larrv. whittv larry. whitty has been president and a director of happy joe franchising incorporated since its inception. mister whitty has been an employee of happy joe pizza ice cream parlor incorporated since september. from september to he served as a vice president and director. in larry. whitty became president of franchise operations and still serves as a director. director. secretary treasurer and director of advertising and marketing kristel whittv ersan kristel whitty ersan has served as a director secretary treasurer and director of advertising and marketing of happy joe franchising incorporated since its inception. mississippi ersan has been an employee of happy joe pizza ice cream parlor incorporated since. from to she worked for happy joe pizza ice cream parlor incorporated on a part time basis. in she began to work full time and is currently serving as secretary and a director and director of advertising and marketing. director of franchise compliance development timothy. anderson timothy. anderson has been the director of franchise compliance development of happy joe franchising incorporated since january. he served as director of franchise compliance from september to january and as director of franchise development from september to september. he was director of franchise development for happy joe pizza ice cream parlor incorporated from june to september. executive director of field services and training robert lewis robert lewis has been the executive director of field services and training of happy joe franchising incorporated since its inception and of happy joe pizza ice cream parlor incorporated since august. he is also an adjunct professor at scott community college in bettendorf iowa in the culinary arts program. executive director of field operations ron sanger ron senger has been the executive director of field operations of happy joe franchising incorporated since its inception and of happy joe pizza ice cream parlor incorporated since march. hj fdd item. litigation there is no litigation that must be disclosed in this disclosure documontltem. item. bankruptcy no person proviously idontified in items or of this disclosuro document has boon involved as a debtor in procoedinas undor tho. bankruptcy code bankruptcy information is required to be disclosed in this item. item. initial fees franchise agreement yeowhen vou sign the franchise agreement you must pay to company an initial franchise fee as follows for a full size restaurant franchise for a delco facility franchise if you are a conversion franchisee you will receive a discount off the initial franchise fee for the type of franchise you are purchasing. you must pay the initial franchise fee in full when you sign the franchise agreement. the franchise fee is uniform to all franchisees under this disclosure document. the franchise fee is fully earned and non refundable under any circumstances except. if company determines that you are unable to satisfactorily complete the training program required of all franchisees. company may terminate the franchise agreement and return the franchise fee less company expenses not to exceed of the total initial franchise fee due from you. if no acceptable site is found and approved by the parties within days from the date of the signing of the franchise agreement then upon whtten application from either party the franchise agreement will be terminated and all or a portion of the initial franchise fee will be returned to you. if the company has tendered approval sites to you which you have not accepted the company is entitled to of the total initial franchise fee due from you for site evaluation and selection activities. hj fdd rudy tacos add on you must pay to company a non refundable license fee of for the license to sell the rudy tacos menu items. the license fee is paid when you sign the rudy tacos amendment to franchise agreement. if you are a new franchisee you will pay the fee and sign the amendment when you sign the franchise agreement. satellite location if you are an existing franchisee you can purchase the right to open a satellite. you must pay a franchise fee of to company when you sign the satellite location addendum. area development agreement if you are an area developer you must pay the initial franchise fees for each individual franchise as described in this item. when you sign the area development agreement you must pay to the company vermont of the initial franchise fee for the first franchise plus of the initial franchise fee to be paid for the additional franchises which you will be developing under the area development agreement. you will sign the franchise agreement for each additional franchise when your site is approved. the balance of virgin islands of the franchise fee for each happy joe franchise will be due when you sign the applicable franchise agreement and the remaining of the franchise foo will be duo within days of tho date of oxgcution of tho franchiso agreomont. for example the remaining initial franchise fee to be paid on the second franchise to be opened would be for a full size restaurant and for a delco facility. for the full size roctaurant you must pay when you sign the franchise agreement and tho remaining within days of tho execution of that franchise agrooment for a delco facility you must pay when you sign tho franchise agreement and the remaining within days of the execution of that franchiso agroomont. other initial purchases from company prior to opening the franchised facility you may but are not required to purchase certain supplies from the company such as preprinted advertising uniforms name tags and training posters. the cost of these purchases is approximately hj fdd item other fees. franchise agreement type of fee amount due date remarks royalty fees. of gross sales for a full size restaurant for a delco. beginning on the date you begin operating the franchised facility. payable weekly on wednesday of each week by electronic transfer of funds. if you fail to timely file gross sales reports company will draw an estimated amount. gross sales means the total of all sales of proprietary products menu items other food and beverage products and other related merchandise and products including any income from coin machines to your customers whether or not sold or performed at or from the happy joe franchised facility less sales use or service taxes collected and paid to the appropriate taxing authority customer refunds and delivery surcharges collected and paid to your delivery drivers. all barter and exchange transactions will be valued at the full retail value of the goods services provided to you. advertising fees happy joe national franchise board contribution to the happy joe national franchise board hjnfb as determined by the hjnfb. currently monthly fees are. of gross sales. if hjnfb is terminated you must pay an advertising fee to company of the greater of or of gross sales. payable by the day of each calendar month by electronic transfer of funds. you must participate actively with the national franchise board. company has the right to enforce the amount due hjnfb if you.do not pay them. item for more information. cooperative your pro rata share in advertising proportion to sales as determined by cooperative. all money spent on cooperative advertising will be a credit against the local advertising requirement. determined by cooperative. company designates cooperatives. company or affiuatecompany affiliate will participate in cooperatives and will have one vote per restaurant. local advertising of gross sales. you must furnish an accounting of annual expenditures to company within days of each year end. you pay directly to advertisers subject to company approval. required listing in the yellow pages is a credit toward this expense. hj fdd type of fee audit amount cost of audit plus interest on underpayment due date upon demand. remarks you pay the cost of the audit only if company audit shows that you understated gross sales by at least. othenwise you pay only the underpayment and interest on the underpayment inspection cost of inspection by qualified third party designated by company upon demand. you pay the cost of the inspection and re inspection every days if your facility and operations are rated as unacceptable until your facility passes inspection. maintenance and modernization cost plus overhead for maintenance no more than your initial cost for leasehold improvements for modernization. upon demand time of modernization. payable if company repairs or maintains your premises if you do not within days after you receive written notice from company. you must periodically but not more than once every years modernize the franchised facility. operation of the franchised facility in case of your default then current service fee published in the manual plus expenses of company representative. time of service payable if company operates your franchised facility if you fail to cure a default within business days of your receipt of a notice to cure. late fees highest applicable legal rate for open account business credit not to exceed. a month. after due date applies to all royalty fees advertising contributions and amounts due for purchases from company or its affiliatofs.company affiliate. company does not agree to accept your late payments and may apply any payments to your indebtedness as it sees fit. supplier supplies approval reasonable cost of inspection and actual cost of testament time of inspection applies to new suppliers or supplies that company has not previously approved. you or the supplier pays the costs. see item for more information. operation of the franchised facility in case of your absence incapacity or death. reasonable compensation and expenses for company representative. time of sen ice payable if company decides to operate the franchised facility. prevents harmful interruption or depreciation of the franchised facility in case of your absence incapacitation or death. hj fdd type of fee incapacity amount cost due date time of determination remarks any dispute concerning your incapacity will be decided by the majority of medical physicians and the cost will be paid by the party against whom the decision is made. incapacity includes physical mental or emotional incapacity chemical dependency or other limitations. transfer fee of company then current franchise fee for start up franchises. at time of transfer this transfer fee does not apply to an assignment of interest to a corporation that you form and own. additional assistance company actual expenses time of assistance company provides approximately days of assistance during the beginning of operations at its costs. additional assistance is at your cost. additional training per trainee over trainees for initial training per trainee for additional managers. time of training applies if you fall training or if you hire new or additional managers after initial training. you are responsible for all expenses of your employees in attending this training including travel room and board and employees salaries. relocation fee time of cost payable if you relocate the franchised acility to cover companies services. company must approve the new location. see item for more information. renewal fee of company then current franchise fee for start up franchises with a minimum of south at time of renewal payable if you renew at the end of the initial term. see item for information on additional conditions for renewal. indemnification varies time of indemnification you must indemnify company and its designees from and against all loss costs damages and liabilities connected with the franchised facility or connected with company operation of the franchised facility for you as it determines. cost of enforcement or defense varies upon breach of the franchise agreement you may be responsible for company legal expenses in defending or enforcing the franchise agreement. hj fdd q type of fee reimbursement for taxes amount due date actual amount assessed upon demand remarks payable if taxes are levied against company from franchisee business operations or franchisee payments to company. annual meeting fee determined by company in before date of conference payable when you and or your employees attend the annual meeting. you are also responsible for the travel and living expenses incurred by you and your employees in attending the conference. company requires your attendance at the annual meeting. ipaths on line training currently si per quarter first payment due upon date of opening and each calendar quarter thereafter you must have access to ipaths on line training throughout the franchise term for training employees. all fees are imposed by and are payable to company unless otherwise noted. any fees paid to company are non refundable unless othenwise noted. all fees are imposed uniformly for franchisees purchasing under this disclosure document however there are franchisees under previous franchise agreements that pay royalties and advertising fees in a different manner and amount and or that do not pay all of the fees listed in this item. if you are a conversion franchisee you must pay company all fees and payments described in this disclosure document unless otherwise noted. area development agreement type of fee amount due date remarks indemnification varies time of indemnification you must indemnify company from and against any claims and costs incurred by it by reason of your operation of the development business or your offer or sale of securities. transfer fee then current fee. before transfer. payable if you sell or transfer all or any portion of your area development agreement or interest in the area development rights. all fees are imposed by and are payable to company. all fees are non refundable. hj fdd item. estimated initial investment your estimated initial investment full size restaurant initial investment to begin operation of the franchise and to operate for the first months. hjfdd line type of expenditure estimated amount or estimated high low range method of payment when due to whom paid litialp initial franchisee fee lump sum when you sign the company franchise agreement renr. as arranged as arranged landlord lease and utility security deposits. as arranged as arranged landlord and utility companies leasenold impro ements. dakota south dakota qtq q as arranged as arranged you determine initial nventory dakota south dakota as arranged as arranged company or approved suppliers furnitjre fixtures equipnent as arranged as arranged.q approved suppliers insurance. as arranged as arranged. insurance company training. as incurred as incurred transportation lines hotels and restaurants grand opening adver ising as arranged first days of operations company approved suppliers signal as arranged as arranged approved suppliers additional funds months as arranged as incurred you determine tota south hj fdd for full size restaurant chart see notes following delco facility chart. your estimated initial investment delco facility initial investment to begin operation of the franchise and to operate for the first months. type of expenditure estimated amount or estimated high low method of range payment when due to whom paid initial franchisee fee lump sum when you sign the company franchise agreement rent. as arranged as arranged landlord lease and utility security deposits. south as arranged as arranged landlord and utility companies leasehold improvements. as arranged as arranged you determine initial inventory. as arranged as arranged company or approved suppliers furniture fixtures equipment. as arranged as arranged approved suppliers insurance as arranged as arranged i insurance company training royal as incurred as incurred transportation lines hotels and restaurants grand opening advertising. as arranged first days of operations company approved suppliers signage as arranged as arranged approved suppliers hj fdd estimated amount or type of estimated high low method of to expenditure range payment when due whom paid additional funds as arranged as incurred you determine smonths o totals. notes initial franchise fee. the franchise fee is described in item of this disclosure document. rent rent expense for the premises will vary based on location square footage lease arrangements minimum payments required age and condition of the structure utility and miscellaneous expenses and other factors. the average suggested facility contains approximately to. square feet of space for a delco facility and to. square feet for a full size restaurant. company estimates that the above amounts will be sufficient to cover the rental payments for months. this estimate range does not include purchasing a site. if you choose to purchase ground and construct a new building the estimated cost for the land ranges from to and the estimated cost for construction of a building ranges from to. plans and specifications will cost you additional monies and may be purchased from an approved architect of your choice. lease and utility security deposits. your landlord and utility companies may require that you place a deposit before occupation of the premises and before installing telephone gas electricity and related utility services. these deposits may be refundable under with the agreements made with the landlord and utility companies. leasehold improvements. the cost of construction and leasehold improvements may vary widely depending upon the size and condition of the premises the local cost of contract work cost of materials quality of materials purchased the location of the business brands of fixtures leased or purchased and financing terms available. the above range of figures for a business is the cost of reasonable renovation or leasehold improvements including the services of an architect store designer and or decorator floor coverings construction painting lighting electrical wiring installation of display counters doors locks and other materials. however the actual cost you incur may be lower or higher than estimated. hj fdd initial inventory. your requirements for initial inventory are described in the manual and include the proprietary products. furniture fixtures equipment. this estimate includes expenses for office equipment small wares uniforms furniture the point of sale system a safe and other fixtures and equipment necessary for the franchised facility. your actual expense will depend on the equipment present at the premises when you assume the lease. the low estimate assumes of the equipment will be financed. the high estimate assumes that you will offer the full array of menu items and will need to purchase all of the equipment needed to prepare these items. insurance. you must procure and maintain insurance coverage in minimum amounts described in the manual or otherwise in writing. the insurance required for the operation of the franchised facility is also described in item of this disclosure document. the low estimate contemplates a month down payment. the high estimate contemplates premium payments for months. training. you are responsible for arranging transportation and paying the expenses for meals and lodging for any persons attending the training program. the amount spent will depend on the distance you must travel and the type of accommodations you choose. the estimate for the full size restaurant contemplates attendance by persons for weeks traveling to company designated location in bettendorf iowa. the estimate for the delco facility contemplates attendance by persons for weeks traveling to company designated location in bettendorf iowa. this estimate also includes the amount you must pay to company to cover the cost of company sending a representative to your franchised facility to provide initial assistance for approximately days around the time of opening of your franchised facility. grand opening advertisina. you must spend this amount on advertising before you open the franchised facility and during the first days of operation. you must follow the manual and the company guidelines in conducting the grand opening advertising. signage. signage includes interior and exterior signs that bear the marks. the cost of signage may vary depending on the type size and location of the signs and may also be affected by local restrictions. additional funds. this amount is projected to cover operating expenses including employees salaries and utility expenses for the first months of operation. however company cannot guarantee that this amount will be sufficient note this estimate does not include draw or salary for you. you should have additional sources for payment of personal expenses. company does not offer any financing for your initial investment and the availability and terms of financing to you will depend upon factors such as the availability of financing in general your credit worthiness the collateral security that you may have and policies of lending institutions concerning the type of business you will operate. the investment and expenditures hj fdd required of actual franchisees may vary considerably from the projections set out above depending on many factors including geographical area the amount of space leased and the business capabilities of any particular management and service team. any fees paid to company are non refundable except as outlined in items and of this disclosure document fees paid to any third party may be refundable depending upon the contracts if any between that third party and you. hj fdd your estimated initial investment rudy tacos add on the tollowing is the initial investment for either a new or established franchise operation in order to add the rudy tacos menu items to the offering of products at the happy joe restaurant. type of expenditure estimated amount or estimated high low range method of payment when due to whom paid license fee lump sum when you sign amendment company initial inventory as arranged as arranged company or approved suppliers equipment. as arranged as arranged approved suppliers training as incurred as incurred transportation lines hotels and restaurants grand opening advertising as arranged within months of the date you begin offering rudy tacos menu items company approved suppliers signage as arranged as arranged approved suppliers additional funds as arranged as incurred you determine months totals notes initial inventory. your requirements for initial inventory are described in the rudy manual and include the proprietary products. eguipment. this estimate covers additional kitchen equipment and small wares needed to prepare rudy tacos menu items. hj fdd training. you are responsible for arranging transportation and paying the expenses for meals and lodging to attend the rudy tacos training conducted at an existing happy joe restaurant that is offering rudy tacos menu items. this estimate also includes the amount you must pay to company to cover the cost of company sending a representative to your franchised facility to provide initial assistance for approximately days around the time you begin offering rudy taco menu items at your happy joe restaurant grand opening advertising. within months of the date you begin offering rudy tacos menu items you must conduct a grand opening campaign relating to the addition of the rudy tacos menu items to your product offerings. signage. this estimate covers additional interior signs that bear the rudy marks. additional funds. this amount is projected to cover additional operating expenses you may incur by the addition of the rudy taco menu items. company does not offer any financing for the additional investment for the rudy tacos add on. the actual investment required may vary considerably from the projections set out above depending on many factors. the license fee paid to company is non refundable. fees paid to any third party may be refundable depending upon the contracts if any between that third party and you. conversion franchise if you are a conversion franchisee your initial investment is expected to be less than the above estimates since you will already have a restaurant location. you may be required to do some leasehold improvements and to purchase some furniture fixtures and equipment so that your restaurant complies with the company standards and specification for happy joe franchised facilities. you may be able to use some of your existing inventory but you will be required to purchase the proprietary products. hj fdd your estimated initial investment satellite initial investment to begin operation of a satellite and to operate for the first months. type of expenditure estimated amount or estimated high low range method of payment when due to whom paid initia franchisee fee lump sum when you sign the franchise agreement company rent arranged as arranged landlord leasehold improvements arranged arranged you determine initial inventory as arranged as arranged company or approved suppliers furniture fixtures equipment arranged as arranged approved suppliers insurance arranged as arranged insurance company training as incurred as incurred transportation lines hotels and restaurants grand opening advertising as arranged first days of operations company approved suppliers signage as arranged arranged approved suppliers additional funds arranged as incurred you determine month iths tot a?. notes initial franchise fee. the franchise fee is described in item of this disclosure document hj fdd rent. rent expense will vary based on location square footage lease or sublease arrangements minimum payments required age and condition of the structure utility and miscellaneous expenses and other factors. the square footage will vary from to square feet depending on the type of location. the estimate provided is for rental payments for the first months. the above estimate does not include lease and utility security deposits as it is assumed that these will not be necessary since it is anticipated that you will be subleasing from an existing business or other operation. leasehold improvements. the cost of construction and leasehold improvements may vary widely depending upon the size and condition of the premises what improvements already exist at the premises the local cost of contract work cost of materials quality of materials purchased the location of the business brands of fixtures leased or purchased and financing terms available. the above range of figures for a business is the cost of reasonable renovation or leasehold improvements including the services of an architect store designer and or decorator floor coverings construction painting lighting electrical wiring installation of doors locks and other materials. however the actual cost you incur may be lower or higher than estimated. initial inventory. your requirements for initial inventory are described in the manual and include the proprietary products. furniture fixtures eguipment this estimate includes expenses for office equipment small wares uniforms furniture cash register system and other fixtures and equipment necessary. your actual expense will depend on the equipment present at the premises when you assume the lease and the menu items that will be offered at your particular type of location. insurance. you must procure and maintain insurance coverage in minimum amounts described in the manual or. othena ise in writing. the insurance required for the operation of the franchised restaurant is also described in item of this disclosure document the low estimate assumes that you are adding coverage for the satellite to your existing business insurance policy. the high estimate contemplates premium payments for months in the event the insurance company requires you to pay a full year premium. training. you are responsible for arranging transportation and paying the expenses for meals and lodging for any persons attending the training program. the amount spent will depend on the distance you must travel and the type of accommodation you choose. the estimate contemplates attendance by persons for weeks traveling to company designated location in bettendorf iowa. grand opening advertising. you must spend this amount on advertising before you open the franchised restaurant and during the first days of operation. you must follow the manual and the company guidelines in conducting the grand opening advertising. signage. signage includes interior and exterior signs that bear the marks. the cost of signage may vary depending on the type size and location of the signs and may also be affected by local restrictions. hj fdd additional funds. this amount is projected to cover operating expenses including employees salaries and utility expenses for the first months of operation. however company cannot guarantee that this amount will be sufficient note this estimate does not include draw or salary for you. you should have additional sources for payment of personal expenses. company does not offer any financing for your initial investment and the availability and terms of financing to you will depend upon factors such as the availability of financing in general your credit worthiness the collateral security that you may have and policies of lending institutions concerning the type of business you will operate. the investment and expenditures required of actual franchisees may vary considerably from the projections set out above depending on many factors including geographical area the amount of space leased and the business capabilities of any particular management and service team. any fees paid to company are non refundable except as outlined in items and of this disclosure document fees paid to any third party may be refundable depending upon the contracts if any between that third party and you. area developer if you are an area developer you should anticipate the initial expenditures listed above for each full size restaurant or delco facility you will open under the area development agreement the following chart estimates the initial investment to begin operation of the area development business and to operate for the first months. the chart below represents costs in addition to the cost to open each additional franchise. the lower estimates assume that you have a fully equipped office location at which you can operate the area development business or that you will not establish an office location until after the first months of operation. your estimated initial investment area developer type of expenditure estimated amount or estimated high low range method of payment when due to whom paid initial franchisee fee note lump sum when you sign the area development agreement company office rent as arranged as arranged landlord hj fdd type of expenditure estimated amount or estimated high low range method of payment when due to whom paid lease and utility security deposits as arranged as arranged landlord and utility companies furniture fixtures equipment and computers as arranged as arranged approved suppliers additional funds months. as arranged as incurred you determine totals plus franchise fees notes initial franchise fee. the franchise fee is described in item of this disclosure document. the total initial fee paid by the area developer upon signing the area development agreement depends on the number of units to be developed. office rent. rent expense is for an office of approximately square feet the lower estimate assumes that you already have an office location at which you can operate the area development business or that you will establish an office location after the initial start up period. the higher estimate is for rental payments for months. lease and utility security deposits. your landlord and utility companies may require that you place a deposit before occupation of the office and before installing telephone gas electricity and related utility services. these deposits may be refundable under with the agreements made with the landlord and utility companies. additional funds. this amount is projected to cover operating expenses including outside accounting or bookkeeping services and utility expenses for the first months of operation. however company cannot guarantee that this amount will be sufficient note this estimate does not include any amount for employee salaries as it is not anticipated that employees will be hired during the first months of operation. this estimate also does not include draw or salary for you. you should have additional sources for payment of personal expenses. company does not offer any financing for your initial investment in the area development business. the availability and terms of financing to you will depend upon factors such as the availability of financing in general your credit worthiness the collateral security that you may have and policies of lending institutions concerning the type of business you will operate. the investment and expenditures hj fdd required of actual area developers may vary considerably from the estimates set out above depending on many factors including geographical area the amount of space leased and the business capabilities of any particular management and service team. any fees paid to company are non refundable except as outlined in items and of this disclosure document fees paid to any third party may be refundable depending upon the contracts if any. between that third party and you. item. restrictions on sources of products and services proprietary products company owns certain proprietary products including food products paper products uniforms north dakota other equipment you must purchase the proprietary products from suppliers designated by company. company and or its predececsorcompany affiliate have license agreements with manufacturers of these products and with distributors who are licensed to sell the products to franchisees. company and or its predecossorcompany affiliate indirectly receive revenue from franchisees purchases of the proprietary products in the form of license fees paid by manufacturers and distributors in the fiscal year ended september company had revenue of from license fees resulting from purchases by franchisees and affiliate owned restaurants owned bv company affiliate which is of its total revenues of. these revenue figures were taken from company audited financial statements. software company itself or a designated supplier may develop and custom design a proprietary software package for conducting accounting inventory and point of sale functions and related activities at the franchised facility. the proprietary software may be implemented into the system at company discretion. if the proprietary software is implemented into the system you may be required to only use the proprietary software in the operation of the franchised facility. rudy tacos if you are licensed to offer rudy tacos menu items you must purchase certain sauces spice mix tortilla shells meats and printed supplies bearing the rudy tacos mark from suppliers designated by the company. approved supplies and suppliers company will give you a list of approved manufacturers suppliers and distributors authorized for the franchised facility approved suppliers list and a list of approved inventory products equipment and other items or services necessary to operate the franchised facility approved supplies list. if you would like to sell or use any product material or supply or purchase any products from a supplier not on hj fdd either of these lists you must notify company and may need to submit samples and other information to company so that company can make an informed decision as to whether the product or supplier meets company standards. you may be charged for the costs of company determining whether a product or supplier should be approved. the cost will vary depending on the availability of product samples for testing shipping costs or travel costs to review the product type of product under review the availability of objective information on the product or supplier whether the product or supplier has been rated or reviewed by associations in our industry and other similar factors. company will approve or disapprove proposed suppliers and submitted items within weeks. all inventory products supplies and other items used in the franchised facility operations which are not specifically required to be purchased from suppliers designated by company or from company approved supplies list or approved suppliers. list must conform to company specifications and quality standards. there are no approved suppliers in which any of our officers owns an interest. company applies the following general criteria in approving a proposed supplier ability to purchase product in bulk quality of services and product specifications production and delivery capability proximity to franchised facilities in order to be able to make timely deliveries of product dependability of the supplier willingness to enter into confidentiality agreements to protect company proprietary products whether supplier follows haccp gmp and ssop guidelines and whether supplier has annual food safety and quality audits conducted by independent third parties. company may limit the number of suppliers who are approved in order to gain buying power and efficiency. company complete criteria for approving a proposed supplier will be made available to you in writing. company written specifications and standards for purchasing and list of approved suppliers will be provided to you. any additions or changes to company purchasing standards will be provided to you in writing. if an approved supplier or supply fails to meet company criteria for approval. company will notify you in writing and you must cease using that supplier or supply. supplier whose approval has been revoked may apply to company for reapproval if it follows the same procedure as previously unapproved suppliers. company is currently an approved supplier of certain preprinted advertising and promotional items bearing the marks uniforms forms signs and supplies. company is currently the only approved supplier of trademarked name tags redemption tokens and forms used in the management of the franchised facility. company affiliate. happv joe pizza icq croam parior. inc.affiliate is currently aftthe only approved supplier of computer maintenance products but not the only approved supplier. in the fiscal year ended september company received. or of its total revenues of dakota south dakota from franchisee purchases of the items described above. these revenue figures were taken from the audited financial statement of happy joo franchising. incthe hj fdd illinois company. in the fiscal year ended september company affiliate happy joo pizza ice croam parlor affiliate received. or less than of its total revenues of. from franchisee purchases including sales of computer maintenance products. these revenue figures were taken from the unaudited financial statement of happy joe pizza ice cream parlor. inccompanv affiliate. the purchase of products from designated suppliers approved suppliers or in accordance with specifications and standards will represent approximately to of your initial purchases in operating the franchised facility and to of your on going purchases if you are operating a full size restaurant or delco facility and to of your on going purchases if you are operafing a satellite location. company does not provide any material benefits for example renewal or addifional franchises to franchisees based on the franchisee use of designated or approved suppliers. however you must comply with the requirements to purchase from designated or approved sources to be in compliance with your franchise agreement certain suppliers make rebate payments to company because of transactions with franchisees. based on the quantities purchased. there are no purchasing cooperatives in existence at this time. company negotiates arrangements with suppliers for the benefit of franchisees. insurance you must procure and maintain at your expense an insurance policy or policies protecting you. company and the respective officers directors and employees against any loss liability personal injury death or property damage or expense connected to the franchised facility as company may reasonably require for its own and your protection. company must be named as an additional insured in the policy or policies. the policy or policies must be written by an insurance company licensed in the state in which your franchised facility is located and having at least an rating classification as indicated in best key rating guide. if possible the policy must include a provision agreeing to provide notice to company at least days before cancellation or non renewal. if this is not possible you must notify us at least days before cancellation or non renewal. you must obtain replacement coverage prior to the cancellation or non renewal of anv existing insurance policy and provide us with a copy of the new insurance certificate. company may modify minimum insurance requirements. hj fdd item. franchisee obligations this tablo lists your principal obligations under the franchise agreement and area development agreement. it will help you find more detailed information about your obligations in the franchise agreement and area development agreement and in other items of this disclosure document. reference is to franchise agreement unless otherwise indicated. obligation provision in agreement disclosure document item a site selection and acquisition lease paragraph iii satellite locafion addendum paragraph delco colorado brand facility addendum paragraph area development agreement paragraph. items and. pre opening purchases leases paragraphs iii. and xii. items and. site development and other pre opening requirements paragraphs iii. and iv satellite location addendum paragraph. items and. initial and ongoing training paragraph iv. conversion addendum paragraph iii satellite location addendum paragraph rudy amendment paragraph. items and. opening paragraph xii. conversion addendum paragraph iii satellite location addendum paragraph. item. fees paragraphs. iii. ix. xi. xtl. xiv. xvi. xix. xxi. xxii. and xxv. conversion addendum paragraph ii. satellite location addendum paragraph area development agreement paragraphs ii. and rudy amendment paragraphs. items and. compliance with standards and policies operations manual paragraphs virgin islands vii. xi. xii. and xxii rudy amendment paragraph. items and hj fdd company obligations during the operation of the franchised facility. for a full size restaurant or delco facility franchise for approximately days before and during the start of franchised facility operations company will furnish to you at your premises and at your expense a representative to help with the opening of your franchised facility. for a satellite company will furnish you a representative at your franchised facility for approximately days before and during the start of the satellite operations as part of the training program for a satellite. company may provide additional assistance if you request at its then current fee as described in item of this disclosure document. paragraph iv. satellite location addendum paragraph. if you sign a rudy tacos amendment to franchise agreement for approximately days around the time you begin offering rudy tacos menu items company will furnish to you at your premises and at your expense a representative to help you with adding the rudy tacos menu items to your restaurant operations. if you enter into the rudy tacos amendment at the same time that you execute a new franchise agreement this training will be in conjunction with and not in addition to the initial assistance provided for the full size restaurant or delco facility. rudy amendment paragraph. company will loan you copy of the manual made up of a number of manuals which contains mandatory and suggested specifications standards and procedures. the manual is confidential and remains the property of company. company may modify the manual. paragraph virgin islands the table of contents of the manual for the full size restaurant and the delco facility franchises as of the date of this disclosure document is attached to this disclosure document at exhibit. the total number of pages in the manual as of the date of this disclosure document island plus exhibits. the table of contents of the manual for the satellite as of the date of this disclosure document is found at exhibit. the total number of pages in the satellite manual is currently. the company may provide the following manuals to you depending on the type of franchise you purchase certified artist training manual certified pizza artist training manual and certified delivery driver manual. if you are licensed to offer the rudy tacos menu items the company will also loan you a copy of the rudy manual. the total number of pages in the rudy manual as of the date of this disclosure document island the table of contents of the rudy manual as of this date of this disclosure document is found at exhibit. company will review and approve all promotional materials and advertising that you will use including newspapers radio and television advertising specialty and novelty items signs boxes napkins bags and wrapping papers. if company does not disapprove in writing any advertising or promotional item within days of receipt the particular materials will be considered approved. paragraph ix. rudy amendment paragraph. in lieu of payment to the company of an advertising fee. company currently requires you to become a member of and participate in the happy joe national franchise board incorporated hjnfb. hjnfb is an iowa non profit corporation. the corporation was organized to provide advice suggestions and approval of policies and procedures in all areas in reference to the operation of the company including menu items product development supply selection building design advertising and hj fdd marketing materials programs and techniques for use by participating franchisees and providing members with timely communications of the hjnfb matters events and activities. the membership is made up of franchisees who are required to be members of hjnfb franchisees under older franchise agreements who are not required to be members of hjnfb but who do so voluntarily and appointed representative of the company. happy joe restaurants owned by company or happy joe pizza ice cream parlor incorporated are not obligated to make contributions to hjnfb as if they were franchised facilities. however they currently do make contributions voluntarily. hjnfb is managed under the direction of the board of directors. directors are elected by the membership. hjnfb uses the company in house advertising department freelance contractors and regional advertising agencies for the creation and dissemination of advertising. hjnfb directs the development of all advertising programs and materials. hjnfb does not promise to make expenditures for you which are equal or proportionate to your contribution or to ensure that any particular franchisee benefits directly or proportionately from the placement of advertising. the monies paid to hjnfb are used for the purposes described above. none of the monies you pay to hjnfb will be used to defray the company general operating expenses or to solicit franchises company may be reimbursed by hjnfb for its expenses incurred for hjnfb. further hjnfb may vote to contribute certain sums to the company for projects for the benefit of franchisees. if excess amounts remain in the funds of the hjnfb at the end of its fiscal year the board of directors wilf determine when and how the monies will be spent. hjnfb may dissolve at the end of any calendar month upon the vote of of the members. if dissolved all funds will be paid to company if it will perform the advertising function. if hjnfb is dissolved you must thereafter make payments to the company for an advertising fund administered by the company. hjnfb is not required to make an accounting of expenditures available to you but may do so. in the fiscal year ending april the happy joe national franchise board spent the collected funds as follows south on production. on media placement. on promotions and. on administrative expenses. to date company has not received compensation from hjnfb for providing goods or services to it however. company affitiateaffiliate currently receives compensation from hjnfb for services rendered to illinois company does not have the power to form change or dissolve the hjnfb. see item for other advertising information. company may designate a local regional or national advertising coverage area in which your business and at least other happy joe franchise is located for purposes of developing a cooperative local or regional advertising or promotional program. if company establishes a cooperative you will contribute your share to cooperative advertising and promotional programs in your advertising coverage area defined as the area covered by a particular advertising medium television radio or other medium as recognized in the industry advertising coverage area. the cost of the program will be hj fdd allocated among franchisees in the advertising coverage area and each franchisee share will be in proportion to its sales during the preceding month period. payments you make to the cooperative are credited toward your local advertising expense requirement. at the time a program is submitted. company will submit a list to you of all operating happy joe restaurants within the advertising coverage area. paragraph ix. each business will receive vote. the members of the cooperative are responsible for the current administration of the cooperative. the cooperative currently need not operate from written governing documents. the cooperafives are encouraged but not required to prepare periodic financial statements. company has the power to form change dissolve or merge cooperatives. company may modify the system including the adoption and use of new or modified trade names new proprietary products new marks or copyrighted materials new menu items new products new equipment or new techniques. paragraph viii. company may advise you concerning prices for the food products offered for sale by he franchised facility. paragraph xiii. company will a provide a comprehensive list of established sources of equipment foods supplies and containers necessary for the operation of the franchised facility and specifications for these products coordinate product distribution for local regional and national suppliers regulate quality standards and products throughout the network of franchised facilities coordinate advertising materials and strategies negotiate group rates on products and materials for the franchised facility as company deems necessary and provide on going training and support. paragraph xlll. company will make visits to the franchised facility. company will prepare written reports concerning these visits outlining any suggested changes or improvements in the operations of the franchised facility and will provide a copy to you. paragraph xiii. company may furnish you with assistance concerning the operation of the franchised facility as it determines is necessary. paragraph xiii. for a full size restaurant and a delco facility you must purchase and use a computer system and the speedline solutions pos software. for a satellite the company will determine based on your intended premises and operations whether you must purchase a computer system and the speedline solutions pos software or an electronic cash register system. the current hardware requirements are as follows option electronic cash register receipt printers nonresetable journal tape registers remote printer cash drawers hj fdd option computer processors screens printers cash drawers miscellaneous cabling power backup the current estimated cost to purchase the required computer system is to dakota south dakota for a full size restaurant and for a delco. if a computer system is needed for a satellite location the estimated cost to purchase the system island the speedline solutions pos software is offered by speedline solufions incorporated grover street suite b lyndon washington speedline solutions incorporated offers support services and upgrades as they are available. the estimated annual cost of support and upgrades beginning after months from the date of purchase of the software is currently. the company affiiiateaffiliate has been using this software at one of its restaurant locations since. franchisees first began using this software in september. in order to access support from speedline solutions incorporated you must first contact company own computer support staff and if they are not able to answer your question or resolve your problem you will then be referred to speedline. as long as company has an agreement with speedline to offer lower support costs to franchisees if the franchisees are first required to contact company the company will have an obligation to you to provide this initial support. you must have internet access throughout the term of the franchise so that vou can access company ipaths on line training system for initial and ongoing training for vou. your managers and employees. you have the option of offering on line ordering to customers. currently the costs associated with on line ordering paid to a third party vendor is an initial fee of for set up with your existing pos system and an ongoing monthly charge of approximately. to. per order depending on order volume. company mav reguire you to upgrade or update the computer system at any time. there isare no contractual timitlimitations on the number of times you must upgrade this eguipmentor update the computer system or on the amount of money that you must spend in doing so. company will have full access to all of your data systems and related information by direct access whether in person or by computer network or the internet paragraph xi. methods used to select the location of the franchised facility you must select the site for the franchised facility within the area designated in the franchise agreement company approval of the site is required. paragraph iii. if a site is not selected within days from the date of signing the franchise agreement the franchise agreement may be terminated hj fdd as disclosed in item of this disclosure document. the factors considered by company in approving the proposed site may include traffic counts and patterns visibility population and density local business competition cost and accessibility of site. company will give you notice of approval or disapproval of the site within days after receiving your written proposal on a proposed site. typical length of time before operation the typical length of time between the signing of the franchise agreement or the first payment of any consideration for the franchise and the opening of your business is approximately to months after signing the franchise agreement for a full size restaurant or delco facility franchise. the length of time between the signing of the franchise agreement or the first payment of any consideration for the franchise and the opening of a delco colorado brand facility is approximately to months if you do not have an existing facility in which the delco colorado brand facility will be operated or approximately to eeks if you have an existing facility in which the delco colorado brand facility will be operated. the length of time between the signing of the satellite location addendum and the opening of the satellite business is approximately days. the factors that may affect this time include your ability to locate a site construct decorate and equipment the site complete training and hire employees. for a full size restaurant or delco facility franchise you must open your franchised facility within months if the premises is located in an existing building and months if the premises is being built to suit after signing the franchise agreement unless you are prevented from doing so by reasons beyond your control. paragraph xii. you must open the satellite location by the later of days of signing the satellite location addendum or days after the opening of the facility in which the satellite will be operated. satellite location addendum paragraph if you are a conversion franchisee you must begin operafion of your business as a happy joe franchised facility within days after you sign the franchise agreement if you are purchasing a full size restaurant franchise or a delco franchise conversion addendum paragraph iii. training the initial training programs as of the date of this disclosure document are as follows hj fdd training program full size restaurant and delco subject hours of classroom training hours of on the job training location orientation none company headquarters in bettendorf iowa product preparafion happy joe restaurants selected by company product purchasing selected happy joe restaurants customer service selected happy joe restaurants administrative responsibilities bettendorf iowa marketing bettendorf iowa policy standards none bettendorf iowa on the job training areas hands on experience all none selected happy joe restaurants the restaurant designated for on the job training could be any happy joe franchised or affiliate owned a restaurant owned by company affiliate. some of the initial training may be done on line with the company ipaths on line training system. training program satellite subject hours of classroom training hours of on the job training location orientation none company headquarters in bettendorf iowa product preparation happy joe restaurants selected by company hj fdd subject hours of classroom training hours of on the job training location product purchasing selected happy joe restaurants customer service selected happy joe restaurants administrative responsibilities bettendorf iowa marketing bettendorf iowa policy standards none bettendorf iowa on the job training all areas hands on experience. none selected happy joe restaurants last days of training will be at the satellite location a restaurant owned by company affiliate. some of the initial training may be done on line with the company ipaths on line training system. training program rudy tacos subject hours of classroom training hours of on the job training location history and philosophy none company headquarters in bettendorf iowa financial controls none company headquarters in bettendorf iowa start up bettendorf iowa and happy joe restaurants selected by company daily operations none selected happy joe restaurants handling employees and customer service bettendorf iowa and selected happy joe restaurants food preparation selected happy joe restaurants miscellaneous none selected happy joe restaurants hj fdd if you sign the rudy amendment at the same time that you sign a new franchise agreement some of this training may be in conjunction with and not in addition to the initial training conducted for the full size restaurant and delco facility. the restaurant designated for on the job training could be any happy joe franchised or affiliate owned restaurant owned by company affiliate that offers rudy menu items. the time devoted to each subject covered in the initial training may vary between franchisees depending on their experience. the following instructional materials will be used during the training policies and procedures manual marketing manual accounting manual and forms certified pizza artist manual food and beverage manual ordering guide certified service artist manual and rudy manual. company has developed and is continuing to develop an on line training system for restaurant owners managers and employees under the name ipaths. in addition to the classroom and on the job training you may be required to complete certain modules of the ipaths training system contemporaneously with attending the inifial training program. you must have a computer and internet access in order to access company ipaths on line training that you may be required to complete. employees of company and happy joe pizza ice croam parior inccompanv affiliate make up the training staffordshire the director of training is robert lewis who is the executive director of field services for the company. mr lewis has been in the food business since. other employees generally involved in conducting the initial training program are kristel whitty ersan director of advertising and marketing has been in the food business since. ron senger executive director of field operations has been in the food business since. tom scott mis it director has been employed by happy joe pizza ice cream parlor incorporated since. steven cowherd field specialist has been employed by happy joe pizza ice cream parlor incorporated since in various positions including as restaurant manager other employees may participate in portions of the initia! training. company reserves the right to make changes in the instructors at any time. training will start approximately months before you begin operations of your franchised facility. training is conducted as often as necessary for new franchisees. company does not charge for you and employees to attend the initial training however your expenses in attending this program including travel and living costs and employees salaries will be your sole responsibility. paragraph iv. you must successfully complete company training program. if company determines that you are unable to satisfactorily complete the initial training program. company may require that you attend hj fdd additional training at company current daily fee until you demonstrate your ability to operate the franchised facility to company satisfaction or terminate the franchise agreement. see item for more information. paragraph iv. the satellite training must be successfully completed by you or the manager for the satellite location satellite location addendum paragraph. you must complete the initial training no later than around the time of the opening of the franchised facility. the rudy tacos training must be completed by you before you begin selling the rudy tacos menu items at your franchised facility. rudy amendment paragraph company may periodically provide and require that you and or your managers and employees attend and successfully complete refresher training programs or seminars conducted at a company designated location. company will not charge you an attendance fee for mandatory refresher training programs or seminars however you are responsible for the expenses of you and your employees in traveling to and attending the training or seminar including travel costs room and board and employees salaries. your attendance will not be required at more than programs in any calendar year and will not collecfively exceed business days in any calendar year you must provide your employees with access to company on line training system and pay the quarterly fee charged by company. paragraph iv. you must attend any annua! meeting of happy joe franchisees that is held by the company paragraph iv. the company selects the date and location. you must pay an annual meeting fee to company and you are responsible for all of the expenses of you and your employees in traveling to and attending the meeting including travel costs room and board and employees salaries. attendance at annual meetings will not be required more than days during any calendar year. paragraph xii. item. territory for a full size restaurant and delco facility you receive an exclusive territory which will be a mile radius from the location of the franchised facility exclusive territory. you are granted the right to operate a franchised facility at one location approved by company. you must receive company approval of the new location before relocating. as part of the approval process the exclusive territory granted will be reviewed. if the lease for the premises expires or terminates and it is not your fault or if the premises is destroyed condemned or otherwise rendered unusable or if you and company otherwise agree you can relocate the franchised facility to a site acceptable to company. you must use the premises solely for the purpose of conducting a happy joe franchised facility. as long as you are not in default under the franchise agreement company will not grant another happy joe full size restaurant or delco facility and will not establish another happy joe company owned full size restaurant or delco facility in the exclusive territory. company and company affiliates reserves the right to grant satellites and establish company owned satellite units at any location and to offer and sell at wholesale retail or any other distribution system the proprietary products and other products and services which now or in the future comprise a part of the system and which products may be resold to the general public. company and company affiliates also reserves the right to sell at both wholesale and retail all products and services which do not comprise a part of the system. company and its affiliates may market sell or distribute its products for resale through hj fdd supermarkets and other retail facilities and other channels of distribution. the company currently sells happy joe oizzaspizza dipping sauce. spicey joe taco sauce and taco saucehappy joe taco chips through grocery store chains and sells the soicev joe taco sauce and happy joe taco chips to customers from its website and soils tho taco sauce and pizza and dipping sauce through grocery store chains. the company is currently researching the development of other pizza related products for sale to the public through grocery store chains or other retail outlets including frozen and or take and bake happy joe pizzas company i currently in discussions with a restaurant chain about offering happy joe pizza and related products in their corporate and tefranchised restaurants currently located in the states of idaho. nevada. oregon. tennessee. washington and wyoming. company and any affiliates of company is not prohibited from opening other food service businesses or distributing through another distribution system selling or leasing similar products and services under a different trademark. in addition to the exclusive territory granted to you a designated delivery area is designated for you. the designated delivery area will be agreed upon between franchisor and franchisee and will be described in writing in an exhibit to the franchise agreement you can only provide delivery service to locations within your designated delivery area unless you obtain the company prior written consent to deliver outside of your designated delivery area the delivery location is not within the designated delivery area of another franchisee and subject to the standards specifications and procedures on delivery as outlined in the manual. other happy joe franchisees and restaurants owned bv the company owned or affiliate ownod restaurants any of company affiliates will be prohibited from delivering to customers with your designated delivery area except for other franchisees under older franchise agreements that do not have any restrictions on accepfing delivery orders outside of a specified area. and unless you fail to provide proper delivery service to customers in the manner set forth in the manual. in such event other happy joe franchisees or restaurants owned by company or its affiliates may accept orders for deliveries within your designated delivery area. you are not prohibited from serving any customers as long as they come to your restaurant site. you are not restricted in the areas of where you can market and promote your happy joe restaurant except that you cannot conducted targeted marketing in the designated delivery area assigned to another happy joe franchisee targeted marketing includes all forms of advertising and promotion for customers which can reasonably be restricted to an address. examples are direct mailings door leaflets telephone solicitation and localized signs. these restrictions are imposed to prevent confusion in the market place among happy joe franchisees soliciting the same customers. you do not receive the right to acquire additional franchises within your exclusive territory designated delivery area or contiguous territories. continuafion of your exclusive rights to the exclusive territory is not dependent upon achieving any sales quotas market penetration or other contingency. however you must at all times use your best hj fdd efforts to promote and increase the sales and series ice of menu items and to effect the widest and best possible distribufion of happy joe products and services from your happy joe restaurant. your failure to do so is cause for termination of the franchise agreement. rudy tacos under the rudy tacos amendment you will not receive an exclusive territory with respect to your use of the rudy tacos marks and the rudy tacos menu items. you may face competition from other franchisees from outlets that we own or from other channels of distribution or competitive brands that we control. you may face compefition from larosa or its rudy tacos franchisees. however pursuant to the license agreement between company and larosa. larosa has agreed with company that after december it will not establish a rudy tacos restaurant within a mile radius of a happy joe restaurant offering the rudy tacos menu items under a valid license from the company. satellite if you purchase the right to establish a satellite you will not receive an exclusive territory for the satellite locafion. you may face competition from other franchisees from outlets we own or from other channels of distribution or competitive brands that we control. area development agreement under the area development agreement you will be granted an exclusive territory within which you will develop the number of full size restaurants and delco facilities agreed to by you and company development territory. any satellites opened by you will not count toward your development requirements. your development territory is described in exhibit to the area development agreement. the size of the development territory will vary and will depend on the market potential and company analysis of your financial and operational capabilities. company will not establish or license anyone other than you the right to establish a happy joe restaurant in the development territory before the expiration of the development schedule as long as you are not in default under the area development agreement. company and company affiliates reserves the right to offer and sell at wholesale retail or any other distribution system the proprietary products and other products and services which now or in the future comprise a part of the system and which products may be resold to the general public. company and company affiliates also reserves the right to sell at both wholesale and retail all products and services which do not comprise a part of the system. company and its affiliates may market sell or distribute its products for resale through supermarkets and other retail facilities and other channels of distribution. company and its affiliates is not prohibited from opening other food service businesses or distributing through another distribution system selling or leasing similar products and services under a different trademark. hj fdd other than those franchises provided for in the area development agreement you do not receive the right to develop additional franchises in the development territory. continuation of your exclusive rights to the development territory is dependent on meeting the development schedule or otherwise being in full compliance with the area development agreement and all franchise agreements you have entered into with company folios you do not meet your development schedule or are not in full compliance with the area development agreement or any franchise agreement company has the option to terminate the area development agreement reduce the number of franchised facilities you can open or terminate or reduce your exclusive territorial rights. after the completion of your development schedule company will give you a right of first refusal on any addifional franchised or company owned locations company desires to establish in the development territory or on any additional area development agreements for the development territory. you will have days to exercise the right to yourself establish the desired additional location by signing the then current franchise agreement or to develop multiple additional locations by signing the then current area development agreement and paying the initial fees due upon signing. this right of first refusal will continue with the termination or expiration of your last franchise agreement. item. trademarks company grants you the right to operate a franchised facility under the mark happy joe and other marks company may authorize you to use. depending on the market area in which you establish your franchised facility you may also be granted the right to use and or be required to use the mark cafez. company owns registrafions of the primary trademarks service marks names logos and symbols to be used by you in identifying the franchised facility and its products marks with the united states patent and trademark office on the principal register as follows mark happy joe registrafion number registration date february mark happy joe registration number registrafion date november mark happy joe pizza ice cream parlor registration number registration date november hj fdd mark registration number registration date where birthdays are fun november mark registration number registration date chicago prime may mark registrafion number registration date happy joe august mark registrafion number registration date spicey joe december mark registration number registration date. march mark registration number registration date tortizza february mark registration number registration date meat works february mark registrafion number registration date lasghetti. march mark registration number registration date design plus words happy joe pizza ice cream parlor june mark registrafion number registrafion date mark registration number registration date good times to be together! august mipi december. hj fdd registrations initially obtained by happy joe pizza ice cream parior incorporated were assigned to company on september. all required affidavits to maintain these registrations have been filed. you are authorized to use the logo appearing above or a logo which company develops and designates in the future in the operation of your happy joe franchised facility. there are currently no other effective registrations or pending applications for registration of the marks on file with any state. company as owner of all right title and interest to the marks claims common law rights to the marks. there are no presently effecfive determinations of the united states patent and trademark office pto the trademark trial and appeal board the trademark administrator of any state or any court any pending infringement opposition or cancellation proceeding or any pending material lifigafion involving the marks or other commercial symbols. happy pizza company of southfield michigan uses the mark happy pizza in operating pizza restaurants currenfiy in michigan. ohio and qtholllinois. locafions in indiana are expected to open indiana it filed for federal registration of the mark with the pto on september based on alleged use since. on november the company filed a notice of opposition with the pto to oppose the registration of the mark. happy pizza company filed an answer to the company notice of opposition on january. on january the company and happy pizza company entered into an agreement that would allow contemporaneous non confusing use of marks owned by happy pizza company and the company marks and provided for the company withdrawal of the opposition to the federal registration of the happy mark. the agreement will remain in force as long as the parties or their assigns maintain proprietary rights in their respective marks. while the agreement does not restrict the company or its franchisee use of its marks it does permit the use of happy pizza marks in certain states and areas in which happy joe restaurants are located under certain restricfions including restricfions on how close a happy pizza restaurant can be established to a happy joe pizza restaurant unless the company consent is obtain and restrictions on promotion and markefing. in iowa kansas north dakota nebraska and south dakota happy pizza company cannot establish a restaurant without the company consent. in illinois minnesota missouri and wisconsin happy pizza company cannot operate a happy pizza restaurant within miles of exisfing happy joe restaurants. in certain other states and cities happy pizza company cannot operate a happy pizza restaurant within miles or miles of an established happy joe restaurant there are no restrictions on happy pizza company use of its marks in other states. you should investigate the existence of happy pizza restaurants in the area in which you intend to establish a franchised facility. your franchised facility could be affected if you must compete with a happy pizza restaurant which may result in some customer confusion. hj fdd except for the above there are no infringing uses actually known to company that could materially affect your use of these marks trade names logotypes or other commercial symbols in this state or any other state in which the franchised facility is to be located. there are no agreements currenfiy in effect which significantly limit company rights to use or license the use of the marks in a manner material to the franchise. on september company entered into a license agreement with happy joe pizza ice cream parior incorporated granfing it a license to use the marks and system in operating its happy joe restaurants. this agreement does not limit the rights of the company or its franchisees to use the marks. all of your usage of the marks and any established goodwill will exclusively benefit company. you will not receive any interest in the marks. you may not at any fime contest the validity or ownership of the marks including any marks authorized or licensed to you after you sign the franchise agreement. you must immediately notify company when you learn about an infringement of or challenge to your use of the marks. company will take whatever acfion they think appropriate. company is not required to defend you against a claim against your use of the marks. you must modify or disconfinue using any mark upon direction to do so from company within a reasonable fime after receiving notice from company. you must not use any mark or a portion of any mark as part of any corporate or trade name or domain name on the internet in any modified form in the sale of any unauthorized product or service or in any other manner that company has not authorized in wrifing. you must give notices of trademark and service mark registrafion as company specifies and obtain fictifious or assumed name registrations as may be required under applicable law. you must not use any merchandising advertising or promotional practice which is unethical or may be injurious to the business of company other franchised facilifies or to the goodwill associated with the marks. company and its agents will have the right to enter and inspect your franchised facility to make sure you are complying with company standards. your employees must at all fimes wear uniforms imprinted with the marks. you must use the designation or other trademark registrafion notice where applicable in your advertising and promotion. rudy tacos company is licensed the right to sub license the marks rudy tacos and related logo rudy tacos marks pursuant to the license agreement between company and larosa. you are granted the hj fdd right to use the rudy tacos marks if you enter into a rudy tacos amendment. larosa owns the registration of rudy tacos with the united states patent and trademark office issued on november registration number. it also owns the registration of a rudy tacos logo with the united states patent and trademark office issued on november registrafion number. the license agreement between company and larosa significantly limits company right to use and sub license the use of the rudy tacos marks. the license agreement expires on november unless it is terminated sooner according to its terms and will renew automafically unless either party gives notice that it intends to not renew. company is restricted from granting a happy joe franchisee the license to use the rudy tacos marks in certain areas of iowa and within a mile radius of any rudy tacos restaurant. the license agreement may be terminated by either party for breach or in the case of insolvency or bankruptcy. company can terminate the license agreement if company decides that the happy joe franchise system will no longer offer rudy tacos menu items or if any action by larosa or its licensed users of the rudy tacos marks adversely affect the reputation of the rudy tacos marks or rudy tacos menu items. if the license agreement expires or terminates for any reason you will have days notice to cease offering the rudy tacos menu items at your franchised facility. this may adversely affect your return on the investment you made in the rudy tacos add on to your business and your total revenues. area development agreement under the area development agreement you do not have the right to use the marks in any manner all of the rights to use the marks are derived solely by entering into a franchise agreement with company. you will have no right to license others to operate a business using the system or the marks. item. patents. copyrights and proprietary information company is the owner of copyright registration number a on file in the. register of copyrights office for the menu used by franchisees and copyright registration number vau on file in the. register of copyrights office for the happy joe pizza ice cream trademark artwork. you can use company copyrighted menu and artwork during the term of the franchise. there are no presenfiy effective determinations of the. register of copyrights office or any court which are relevant to the use of company copyrighted menu. there are no pending infringement opposifion or cancellation proceedings or any pending material litigation involving company copyrighted menu which are relevant to its use. larry whitty one of company owners has filed forobtalned a patent on an apparatus for storing and dispensing boxes. the patent application was ftledissued on march and assignod serialnovember. as number and is currently ponding boforo tho pto. in the future. mister whitty has granted a license to a third party to manufacture this apparatus may be available for your use and or company may reguiro you to eguipment and sell it to happy joe franchisees. you are reguired to purchase this eguipment from this designated supplier and use it in the operation of your happy joe restaurant. hj fdd no other patents or copyrights are material to the franchise. if it becomes advisable at any time in the sole discretion of company to acquire a patent or copyright you are obligated to use the patent or copyright as company requires. you can use the confidential information in the manual as described in item of this disclosure document. although company has not filed an application for copyright registrafion for the manual company claims common law copyrights to the manual which is company confidenfial informafion. you must promptly notify company when you learn of an unauthorized use of the confidential information or the manual. company is not obligated to take any action against any unauthorized user of the confidential informafion or the manual but will respond to this information as company thinks appropriate. company is not obligated to indemnify you for losses brought by a third party concerning your use of this information. you will receive proprietary confidenfial and trade secret information of company. you must maintain the confidentiality of this information unless company authorizes otherwise in wrifing. you will divulge confidenfial informafion only to employees who must know it to operate the franchised facility. all information knowledge and know how which company designates as confidential will be deemed confidential for purposes of the franchise agreement except information which you can demonstrate lavirfully came to your attention before company disclosure or which at the time of company disclosure to you had lawfully become a part of the public domain or which after company disclosure to you lawfully becomes a part of the public domain. you will not divulge to any person or other entity any information trade secrets ingredients recipes cooking techniques and processes used with the proprietary products menu items and other food and beverage products used in the system or any information stated in the manual. company may authorize you to use certain copyrighted or copyrightable works copyrighted works. the copyrighted works are the valuable property of company or a related entity. your rights to use the copyrighted works are granted to you solely on the condition that you comply with the terms of the franchise agreement. company owns or is the licensee of the copyrighted works and will create acquire or obtain licenses for certain copyrights in various works of authorship used in the operation of a happy joe franchised facility including all categories of works eligible for protection under the united states copyright law all of which will be considered copyrighted works under the franchise agreement. these copyrighted works include the manual advertisements promotional materials posters and signs and may include the marks software trade dress and other portions of the system. company intends that all works of authorship concerning the system which are created in the future will be owned by it or a related entity. if you develop any new program recipe food product project work of art or other material in the course of operafing your franchised facility and company approves the use and sale of this item in the hj fdd franchised facility this new item will automatically become the property of company as though company had developed the item itself works for hire. the manual belongs to company and you must return it to company upon the expirafion or termination of the franchise agreement. you must not copy disclose or use the manual in an unauthorized way you must keep the manual updated and at the franchised facility at all fimes. if there is a dispute with the contents of the manual the terms of company master copy will control. when not in use the manual must be kept in a locked receptacle at the premises. you must not use in advertising or any other form of promotion the copyrighted materials or other commercial symbols of company without the appropriate notices which may be required by law or company including or other copyright registrafion notice. all of your employees having access to company confidential and proprietary information and all of your management personnel receiving training from company must sign non disclosure agreements in a form that is acceptable to company. conversion franchise under the conversion franchise agreement you will be bound by the restrictions on the use of confidential information set out in the franchise agreement regardless of the fact that you have operated or been employed by a similar business. all informafion pertaining to your customers before the date you signed the franchise agreement will be deemed to be confidential information as that term is defined in the franchise agreement. area development agreement the area development agreement does not grant you any right to use any of company trade secret and or confidential information. the area development agreement does not grant you any right to any copyright or patent which company now owns or may own in the future. rights to the trade secrets confidenfial information copyrights or patents are granted only under the franchise agreements that you and company sign. item. obligation to participate in the actual operation of the franchise business you or a trained and competent employee acfing as a full fime manager must directly supervise the franchised facility. even if you employ a full time manager you will remain obligated to supervise the operations of the franchised facility. you must keep company informed of the identity ies of your manager. if you hire a substitute or additional manager you must make sure that the manager receives training from company and completes it to company safisfacfion. your manager need not hj fdd have an ownership interest in you but must have some prearranged profit participation in the franchised facility. see items and for information concerning managers and confidenfiality agreements and covenants not to compete. while company encourages your direct on site supervision of the franchised facility you are not restricted in hiring managers who meet company training requirements. you must at all fimes faithfully honestly and diligently perform your obligations under the franchise agreement and not engage in any business or other activities which confiict with those obligations. item. restrictions on what the franchisee may sell you must offer and sell at retail only those goods and services that company has approved. menu items and other food and beverage products will be prepared only by properly trained personnel stricfiy according to company recipes techniques and processes and as required in the manual. all items offered from the franchised facility will be sold only at retail to customers. all menu items and other designated food products must be prepared according to company designated recipes techniques and processes. these recipes techniques and processes are integral to the system and failure to use them will be detrimental to the system and the marks. you are prohibited from offering and selling any pizzas that are not fully baked and ready for consumption. the full size restaurant and delco facility may offer for sale or sell beer and or wine at the franchised facility subject to your compliance with any applicable liquor laws and permits. however you must not offer for sale or sell any other alcoholic beverages. company has the right to add addifional authorized products and services that you must offer there are no limits on company right to do so. you must use only displays trays napkins menus boxes bags wrapping paper labels forms and other paper and plastic products imprinted with the marks and colors. you may not install or maintain on the premises of the full size restaurant or delco facility except for delco colorado brand facilities any newspaper racks video games juke boxes gaming machines gum machines games rides vending machines punchboards raffies or other similar devices without company written approval. you cannot display any third party sign at the franchised facility that is inconsistent with the system the franchised facility family atmosphere or to which company objects. hj fdd you cannot conduct targeted markefing directed to particular addresses in the designated delivery area of another franchisee. you cannot deliver products to customers located outside your designated delivery area unless you obtain company prior written consent the delivery location is not within the designated delivery area of another franchisee and subject to the standards specificafions and procedures on delivery as set forth in the manual. see item for further informafion on restricfions regarding customers. satellite the satellite does not offer delivery service or the other services offered by the full size restaurant and the delco facility such as birthday party and fun center services. the menu offered by the satellite will be more limited than the menu of the full size restaurant and the standard delco facility depending on market size and condifions. the menu offered by the delco colorado brand facility may be more limited than the menu of the standard delco facility. you and company will agree on the menu items which you may offer from the satellite and the delco colorado brand facility before you purchase the franchise and will list the permitted items in a rider to the satellite locafion addendum and the delco colorado brand facility addendum. you may not sell beer and or wine from the satellite. packaged alcoholic beverages may be sold from the premises on which the satellite is located as long as the sale is not made by or through the franchised facility. you will only be required to use a limited number of products imprinted with the marks at the satellite and delco colorado brand facility. rudy tacos when you sign the rudy tacos amendment company will determine what rudy tacos menu items you can offer at your franchised facility. conversion franchise before you open the franchised facility you must remove all inventory products signs and equipment which do not conform with the system are not approved by the company or which do not meet the standards and specifications described in company manual. as of the date you open your business as a franchised facility you must identify and represent your business as a happy joe franchised facility through the use and display of the marks. during a period of year from your beginning of business as a happy joe franchisee you may display with company written approval secondary signage of the size content and style as company describes in its manual for the purpose of advising the public of your former trade name. however on your first anniversary as a happy joe franchisee or as othenwise agreed you must cease using all references to your former trade name and carry out your business activity only as a happy joe franchisee and only hj fdd under the marks. you will at all fimes conduct the franchised facility in compliance with the system and stop providing sen ices or using equipment inventory products or signs which company has not designated to be the components of the system. item. renewal. termination. transfer and dispute resolution the franchise relationship this table lists certain important provisions of the franchise and related agreements. you should read these provisions in the agreements attached to this disclosure document. provision in franchise agreement unless otherwise specified provision summary length of the franchise term paragraph ii. satellite location addendum paragraph rudy amendment paragraph. the term is years from the date the franchise agreement is signed for the full size restaurant and delco facility. the term of the satellite addendum is for the balance of the inifial term of the franchise agreement or unfii the lease for the satellite locafion expires whichever is earlier. the rudy amendment will expire with the franchise agreement unless company license is terminated or expires eariier. renewal or extension of term paragraph ii. satellite location addendum paragraph. if you have complied with all of the provisions in the franchise agreement you can renew for additional term of years. you can choose whether to renew the satellite addendum. hj fdd provision in franchise agreement unless otherwise specified provision summary. requirements for you to renew or extend paragraphs ii. and you may renew the franchise agreement if. you have compiled with all of the franchise agreement provisions you are not in default of the franchise agreement you maintain possession of the premises and have brought the franchised facility into compliance with company current standards you have given nofice of renewal to company you have satisfied all monetary obligations owned to company and its related companies you have signed a new agreement and paid the renewal fee you have met current training requirements and you have signed a general release. the new agreement you must sign may contain materially different terms and condifions from your original agreement. you must give company notice of your intent to renew between and months before the franchise agreement expires. company will give you notice of its intent not to renew along with specific reasons at least months before your franchise agreement expires. termination by you paragraph xvi. rudy amendment. paragraph. you may terminate the franchise agreement if you are in compliance and company materially breaches the franchise agreement and fails to cure within days of receiving your written notice. you may terminate the rudy amendment for any reason by giving company days notice. termination by company without a none in franchise agreement rudy amendment paragraph. the franchise agreement does not contain a provision allowing company to terminate the franchise agreement without cause. company can terminate the rudy agreement upon days notice if company license is terminated for any reason. terminafion by company with cause paragraphs xvi. and rudy amendment paragraph. company may terminate the franchise agreement upon delivery of nofice to you if you default under the terms of the franchise agreement. cause defined curable defaults paragraph xvi. rudy amendment paragraph. the following events constitute curable defaults you fail or refuse to make payments due to company or its affiliates and do not cure within business days or you fail to comply with mandatory specifications in franchise agreement and do not cure within days. hj fdd provision in franchise agreement unless otherwise specified provision summary. cause defined non curable defaults paragraph xvi. rudy amendment paragraph. the following events constitute non curable defaults you fail to complete training make a material misrepresentation or omission in the franchise application are convicted of or plead no contest to a felony or other crime or offense that can adversely affect the reputation of you or the franchised facility misuse the manual marks or software if developed abandon business for business days in any month period surrender control of the franchised facility submit reports understating royalty fees by more than for periods totaling or more weeks more than twice during the term of the franchise fail to submit reports on occasions in any month period confinue to violate any health safety or sanitation law or operation in a manner that presents a health or safety hazard default on any provision of your lease or your bankruptcy. i your obligations on termination non renewal paragraph xvii satellite location addendum paragraph delco colorado brand facility addendum paragraph rudy amendment paragraph. your obligations include stop operations of the franchised facility assign your lease to company at company option stop using the marks and items bearing the marks assign any assumed names to company delaware identify the premises from any confusingly similar decorafion design or other imitafion of a happy joe business stop advertising as a franchised facility pay all sums owed to company pay all of company damages and costs in enforcing the termination provisions of the franchise agreement return all manuals and other confidential informafion and property to company return all signs to company sell to company at company option all assets and items bearing the marks assign your telephone and facsimile numbers to company at company option and comply with the covenants not to compete. assignment of contract by company paragraph xviii. there is no restriction on company right to transfer except that the transferee must be willing and able to fulfill company obligafions. hj fdd provision provision in franchise agreement unless otherwise specified summary. transfer by you definition paragraph xviii. satellite location addendum paragraph rudy amendment paragraph. you may transfer the franchise agreement and all rights under the franchise agreement subject to certain restricfions. you cannot transfer rights under the satellite location addendum or the rudy amendment apart from the franchise agreement. company approval of transfer by you paragraph xvill. company has the right to approve all of your transfers but will not unreasonably withhold approval. condifions for company approval of transfer paragraphs xvill. and. for a transfer to a third party the transferee must meet company qualifications successfully complete the training program and sign the current franchise agreement you will pay all sums owed to company and sign a general release. transfer fee must be paid see item for more information. if you are transferring to an entity you own and formed solely for the purposes of operafing the franchised facility you must remain the owner of the majority interest of that entity. you must promptly give company written notice whenever you receive a third party offer to buy your franchise. you must simultaneously give the company written nofice whenever you offer to sell your franchise. you may not advertise that the franchised facility is for sale without company written consent you are not relieved from complying with the covenants not to compete if you transfer the franchise unless company consents in wrifing. company right of first refusal to acquire your business paragraphs xx. and xvii. company has the right of first refusal to purchase a franchised facility or its assets which are for sale and for which you have received a good faith offer to purchase. company has days from notice of the offer to purchase the franchised facility or its assets at the same terms as contained in the offer. company option to purchase your business paragraphs xx. and xvii. company has the right to purchase your business for days from date of delivery of written offer. company may purchase the assets of the franchised facility at fair market value within days after expiration or termination of the franchise agreement. hj fdd provision in franchise agreement unless otherwise specified provision summary. your death or paragraphs xix. and. your heirs beneficiaries devisees or legal disability representative can apply to company to confinue operafion of the franchised facility or sell or otherwise transfer interest in the franchised facility within days of death or incapacity. if they fail to do so the franchise agreement will terminate and company will have the option to buy the franchised facility. non competition paragraphs xv. and. you must not divert or attempt to divert any covenants during conversion franchise business or customer to a compefitor or the term of the agreement paragraph perform any act which may harm the goodwill franchise iv. associated with the marks and the system employ or seek to employ any person then employed by company or another franchisee of company or othen vise cause that person to leave his or her employ or own or otherwise have any interest in any business including a business you currently operate but excluding any businesses specifically identified in the franchise agreement specializing in the wholesale or retail sale of prepared food products the same as or similar to any product or service provided through the system unless company agrees otherwise. your personnel performing managerial or supervisory functions and all personnel receiving training from company may be required to sign covenants in a form satisfactory to company. even though you operated a business similar to the franchised facility before you signed the conversion addendum and franchise agreement you will be bound by company in term and post term covenants not to compete. hj fdd provision in franchise agreement unless otherwise specified provision summary non competition covenants after the franchise is terminated or expires paragraphs xvi. and rudy amendment paragraph. you must not own or operate a business which sells prepared food products or services the same as or similar to any other product or service provided through the system for year after the franchise agreement is terminated within the metropolitan stafisfical area as defined by the. census bureau within a mile radius of the franchised facility premises or within a mile radius of any other business using the system. see above for more information on covenants. for year after the rudy amendment is terminated you cannot be involved in any business that sells mexican food within a mile radius of the franchised facility premises. modification of the paragraphs viii. and agreement xxvii. the franchise agreement can be modified only by written agreement between company and you. company can modify or change the system through changes in the manual. integration merger paragraphs xxvii. and clause xxviii. conversion franchise agreement paragraph. only the terms of the franchise agreement and this disclosure document are binding subiect to state law and. the franchise agreement may only be modified to the extent required by an appropriate court to make the franchise agreement enforceable ttw franchise agreement supersedes all previous discussions negotiations and agroomonts whether oral or written. if there is a conflict between the terms of the franchise agreement and conversion addendum the terms of the conversion addendum will prevail. dispute resolufion by arbitrafion or mediation none the franchise agreement does not provide for dispute resolution by arbitration or mediafion. choice of forum paragraph xxix. any action will be brought in the appropriate state or federal court in iowa subject to state law. choice of law section xiv. the laws of the state where the franchised facility is located apply subject to state law except that disputes regarding the marks will be governed by the united states trademark act of lanham act. second et seq. hj fdd the area development relationship this table lists certain important provisions of the area development agreement. you should read these provisions in the agreement attached to this disclosure document. provision provision in area development agreement summary a length of term of the area development agreement paragraph iv. the area development agreement expires on the date of terminafion or expirafion of the last franchise agreement developed under the area development agreement. renewal or extension of term not applicable the area development agreement does not provide for renewal or the extension of its term. requirements for you to renew or extend not applicable see above. terminafion by you not applicable the area development agreement does not contain a provision allowing you to terminate the area development agreement for any reason. termination by company without cause not applicable the area development agreement does not provide for its termination without cause. termination by company with cause paragraphs vii. if you are in default of the area development agreement company may terminate the area development agreement reduce the number of franchised businesses reduce or terminate your territorial exclusivity or right of first refusal or exercise any other rights and remedies company may have. cause defined curable defaults not applicable the area development agreement does not provide for defaults which can be cured. hj fdd provision provision in area development agreement summary. cause defined non curable defaults paragraph vli. the area development agreement will terminate automatically if you are adjudicated bankrupt or are otherwise involved in a bankruptcy proceeding if a final judgment remains unsafisfied of record for days or longer unless bond is filed if execution is levied against your business or property if a mortgage or lien foreclosure suit is instituted against you and is not dismissed within days if you have failed to exercise options and enter into franchise agreements with company set out on your development schedule failed to comply with any other term and condition of the area development agreement make or attempt to make an unapproved transfer of the area development agreement or if you fail to comply with the terms and conditions of any franchise agreement or other agreement between you and company. i your obligafions on paragraph vii. terminafion non renewal you will lose your options to establish an individual franchised facility for which a franchise agreement has not been signed. default under the area development agreement will not be considered a default under the franchise agreement unless specified otherwise. if you are in default of the area development agreement but are not in default under any one or all of you franchise agreements you may confinue to operate the existing franchised facility ies under the terms of their separate franchise agreements. assignment of contract paragraph viii. by company there is no restriction on company right to transfer the area development agreement except that the transferee must be willing and able to perform its obligations. transfer by you definition paragraphs viii. and. includes transfer of assets and all rights under the contract or change of ownership. you may assign the area development agreement to an entity whose business is to conduct the business contemplated by the franchise if you retain at least interest in the new enfity. company approval of paragraph xvill. transfer by you company has the right to approve all of your transfers but will not unreasonably withhold approval. hj fdd provision provision in area development agreement summary. conditions for company approval of transfer paragraphs ville and. for a transfer to a third party the transferee must meet company qualifications be of good moral character have sufficient business experience aptitude and financial resources and sign the current area development agreement you will pay all sums owed to company or affiliateand its affiliates and sign a general release as well as pay company then current transfer fee. you must give company days written notice before any sale or assignment of the area development agreement and days written nofice of any received offer to buy your interest in the area development agreement you must give simultaneous written notice to company of any offer to sell an interest under the area development agreement made by you. company right of first refusal to acquire your business paragraph viii. company has the right of first refusal to purchase your ownership interest or assets which are for sale and for which you have received a good faith pffer to purchase. company option to purchase your business paragraph viii. and. company has days from nofice of the offer to purchase your ownership interest or its assets at the same terms as contained in the offer. your death or disability not applicable the area development agreement does not provide for your death or disability. hj fdd provision provision in area development agreement summary non commission petifi on covenants during the term of the franchise paragraphs viii. and ix. you must not divert or attempt to divert any business or customer to a competitor or perform any act which may harm the goodwill associated with the marks and the system employ or seek to employ any person then employed by company or another franchisee of company or otherwise cause that person to leave his or her employ or own or otherwise have any interest in any business including a business you currently operate specializing in the wholesale or retail sale of prepared food products the same as or similar to any product or service provided through the system unless company agrees otherwise. you will also be bound by and comply with the covenants in each area development agreement you sign with company. the covenants apply even if you have transferred your interest in the area development agreement. non competifion covenants after the franchise is terminated or expires paragraphs ix. and. you must not own or operate a business which sells prepared food products or services the same as or similar to any other product or service provided through the system for year after the area development agreement is terminated. the covenants apply even if you have transferred your interest in the area development agreement. modification of the agreement paragraphs xv. the area development agreement can be modified only by written agreement between company and you. integrafion merger clause paragraphs xv. and xvi. in case of confiict between the terms of the franchise agreement and the area development agreement the terms of the franchise agreement will prevail. dispute resolution by arbitration or mediation none the area development agreement does not provide for dispute resolufion by arbitrafion or mediation. choice of forum paragraph xvii. any acfion will be brought in the appropriate state or federal court in iowa subject to state law. hj fdd provision provision in area development agreement summary. choice of law paragraph xvii. the law of the sate where the franchised facilities and developer are located applies subject to state law except that disputes regarding the marks will be governed by the united states trademark act of lanham act. second et seq. item. public figures company does not use any public figures to promote its franchise. item. financial performance representations the ftc franchise rule permits a franchisor to provide information about the actual or potential financial performance of its franchised and or franchisor owned oufiets if there is a reasonable basis for the information and if the information is included in the disclosure document financial performance information that differs from that included in item may be given only if a franchisor provides the actual records of an existing outlet you are considering buying or a franchisor supplements the information provided in this item for example by providing information about possible performance at particular location or under particular circumstances. the company does not make any representations about a franchisee future financial performance or the past financial performance of company owned or franchised outlets. the company also does not authorize our employees or representafives to make any such representations either orally or in writing. if you are purchasing an existing oufiet however the company may provide you with the actual records of that outlet. if you receive any financial performance information or projecfions of your future income you should report it to the franchisor management by contacting larry whitty happy joe drive bettendorf iowa or the federal trade commission and the appropriate state regulatory agencies. hj fdd item. outlets and franchisee information table number systemwide outlet summary for years ended september to september and for quarter of o o year october through december column outlet type column year column outlets at the start of the year column outlets at the end of the year column net change franchised company owned. total outlets dakota south dakota hj fdd table number transfers of outlets from franchisees to new owners other than the franchisor for years ended september to september and for quarter of year october. through december column state column year column number of transfers illinois iowa minnesota missouri ?o oo north dakota wisconsin totals hj fdd table number status franchised outlets for years ended september to september and for quarter of year october through december col. col col. col. col. col. col. col col. state year outlets at start of year outlets opened termi nations non renewals reacquired by franchisor ceased operations other reasons outlets at end of the year illinois ! i iowa oi minnesota oil missouri. oi north dakota dakota south dakota onnfl? hj fdd oil wisconsin. totals oil notes of the happy joe franchised restaurants as of december. were full size restaurants were delivery only facilities and were satellites. one iowa franchise temporarily ceased operating in closed due to flood damage however the franchisee plans to re open so the franchise is listed as open in this chart. the hufloisminnesota franchise that was terminated by tl company in o the first quarter of the fiscal year was terminated after the franchisee abandoned the franchiso business. in one illinois franchise and iowa franchisoos shown as boing reacquired by the company were reacquired after the franchisees coagod operating and abandoned tho franchise businesses. as of december the company affiliato had ro opened of the restaurants hj fdd table number status of company owned outlets for years ended september to september and for quarter of year october. through december. col. state col. year col. outlets at start of the year col. outlets opened col. outlets reacquired from franchisee col. outlets closed col. col. outlets outlets at sold to end of franchisee the year illinois oo b iowa north dakota totals notes all outlets are owned and operated by the company affiliate happy joo pizza ice croam parlor incorporated tho following franchises currently one franchise reported in table number are frockford illinois is owned by ajoint ventures that have venture with some common ownership with the company freeport illinois rockford illinois and polla lowo. as of the date of this disclosure document we do not have any active area developers. hj fdd g table number projected openings as of september franchise projected projected agreements new franchised company or affiliate signed but openings in the owned openings indiana state business not open next fiscal year next fiscal year full delco satellite illinois iowa minnesota missouri north dakota wisconsin totals company also has license agreements with restaurants in iowa for the right to sell branded happy joe products. list of happy joe franchised facilities as of december and a list of happy joe restaurants owned by happy joe pizza ice cream parlor incorporated as of december are attached as exhibit. the names city and state and telephone numbers of every franchisee who has had an outlet terminated canceled not renewed or otherwise voluntarily or involuntarily ceased to do business under the franchise agreement duhng the year ending september or the first quarter ending december or who has not communicated with the franchisor within weeks of the date of this disclosure document are listed in exhibit. if you buy this franchise your contact information may be disclosed to other buyers when you leave the franchise system. one agreement containing a confidentiality clause has been signed with a franchisee in the last fiscal years. the following is a trademark specific franchisee association that was created and is sponsored by the company happy joe national franchise board happy joe drive bettendorf iowa president rodryteebsrick anderson. oldhdqe happvioec.com. anderson vousq.net. there are no franchisee organizations that have asked to be disclosed in our hj fdd disclosure document. item. financial statements attached as exhibit are the company audited balance sheets as of september. and and and the related statements of income and retained earnings and cash flows for the years ended september. and. these financial statements have audited by independent certified public accountants. item. contracts the franchise agreement and the following exhibits are attached to this disclosure document as exhibit exhfbit description of designated delivery area exhibit authorization for electronic transfer of funds exhibit guaranty and assumption of obligations exhibit conversion franchise addendum exhibit delco colorado brand facility franchise addendum exhibit collateral assignment of lease exhibit conditional assignment of telephone numbers the area development agreement is attached as exhibit. the satellite location addendum which you must sign to open a satellite location is attached as exhibit. the installment note and security agreement which you will sign if company finances any portion of your initial franchise fee are attached as exhibit. the rudy tacos amendment to franchise agreement that you must sign to offer rudy menu items is attached as exhibit. if you are in a registration state that requires company to enter into a state specific addendum to the franchise agreement the addendum will be attached as exhibit. company provides no other contracts or agreements for you to sign hj fdd ei financial statements of happy joe franchising incorporated exhibit to the franchise disclosure document hj fdd financial statements of happy jobs franchising incorporated exhibit to the franchise disclosure document hj fdd happy joe franchising incorporated satellite location addendum exhibit to the franchise disclosure document hj fdd happy joe franchising incorporated list of state agents for service of process and state administrators exhibit to the franchise disclosure document hj fdd list of state administrators and agents for service of process and registration dates illinois lisa madigan illinois attorney genera! south second street springfield illinois for service of process same indiana. wayne davischris navlor securities commissioner indiana securities division. washington street room indianapolis in for service of process secretary of state state house indianapolis in minnesota glenn wilson commissioner of commerce minnesota department of commerce place east suite street paul minnesota for service of process minnesota commissioner of commerce place east suite street paul minnesota north dakota north dakota securities department east boulevard avenue state capitol floor department bismarck north dakota for service of process north dakota securities commissioner east boulevard avenue state capitol floor. department bismarck. north dakota hj fdd south dakota gail sheppick director division of securities east capitol avenue pierre south dakota for sen ice of process same wisconsin franchise administrator wisconsin securities commissioner. box madison wl madison wl for service of process wisconsin commissioner of securities. washington avenue floor madison wl madison wl agent for service of process in non registration states michael roeder utica ridge road davenport louisiana hj fdd happy joe franchising incorporated table of contents of the manual exhibit to the franchise disclosure document hj fdd tense happy joe franchising incorporated list of happy joe restaurants exhibit to the franchise disclosure document hj fdd happy joe franchising incorporated list of certain former franchisees exhibit to the franchise disclosure document hj fdd list of certain former franchisees for period september through september and october through december none lee sturm continues to own another franchise new diminutive minnesota thomas gantz continues to own another franchise urbandale. iowa douq ricklefs continues to own another franchise muscatine. iowa doug and heather drake freeport. illinois hj fdd happy joe franchising incorporated installment note and security agreement exhibit to the franchise disclosure document hj fdd happy joe franchising incorporated rudy tacos amendment to franchise agreement exhibit to the franchise disclosure document hj fdd happy joe franchising incorporated exhibit to the franchise disclosure document state addendum some administrators of franchise registration states may require company to enter into an addendum to the happy joe franchising incorporated franchise disclosure document and franchise agreement describing certain state laws or regulations which may supersede the franchise disclosure document or franchise agreement. if you are in a registration state which requires an addendum it will follow this page. hj fdd copy for you receipt this disclosure document summarizes provisions of the franchise agreement and other information in plain language. read this disclosure document and all agreements carefully. if happy joe franchising incorporated offers you a franchise it must provide this disclosure document to you calendar days before you sign a binding agreement with or make a payment to us or an affiliate in connection with the proposed franchise sale. if happy joe franchising incorporated does not deliver this disclosure document on time or if it contains a false or misleading statement or a material omission a violation of federal and state law may have occurred and should be reported to the federal trade commission washington. and the appropriate state agency identified in exhibit. the name principal business address and telephone number of each franchise seller offering the franchise thomas anderson and larry whitty happy joe drive bettendori iowa and issuance date january. see exhibit for our registered agents authorized to receive service of process. have received the happy joe franchising incorporated disclosure document dated january. that included the following exhibits. financial statements franchise agreement including authorization for electronic transfer of funds conversion addendum delco colorado brand facility addendum collateral assignment of lease conditional assignment of telephone numbers area development agreement satellite location addendum list of state agents for service of process and state administrators table of contents of the manual list of happy joe restaurants list of certain former franchisees installment note and security agreement rudy tacos amendment to franchise agreement state addendum if applicable dated signed a a name address phone individually or as an officer or partner of corporation partnership street page hj fdd copy for company receipt this disclosure document summarizes provisions of the franchise agreement and other information in plain language. read this disclosure document and all agreements carefully. if happy joe franchising incorporated offers you a franchise it must provide this disclosure document to you calendar days before you sign a binding agreement with or make a payment to us or an affiliate in connection with the proposed franchise sale. if happy joe franchising incorporated does not deliver this disclosure document on time or if it contains a false or misleading statement or a material omission a violation of federal and state law may have occurred and should be reported to the federal trade commission washington. and the appropriate state agency identified in exhibit. the name principal business address and telephone number of each franchise seller offering the franchise thomas anderson and larry whitty happy joe drive bettendorf iowa and issuance date january. see exhibit for our registered agents authorized to receive service of process. have received the happy joe franchising incorporated disclosure document dated january. that included the following exhibits. financial statements franchise agreement including authorization for electronic transfer of funds conversion addendum delco colorado brand facility addendum collateral assignment of lease conditional assignment of telephone numbers area development agreement satellite location addendum list of state agents for service of process and state administrators table of contents of the manual list of happy joe restaurants list of certain former franchisees installment note and security agreement rudy tacos amendment to franchise agreement state addendum if applicable dated signed a a name address phone individually or as an officer or partner of corporation partnership last page hj fdd right to use the rudy tacos marks if you enter into a rudy tacos amendment. larosa owns the registration of rudy tacos with the united states patent and trademark office issued on november registration number. it also owns the registration of a rudy tacos logo with the united states patent and trademark office issued on november registration number. the license agreement between company and larosa significantly limits company right to use and sub license the use of the rudy tacos marks. the license agreement expires on november unless it is terminated sooner according to its terms and will renew automatically unless either party gives notice that it intends to not renew. company is restricted from granting a happy joe franchisee the license to use the rudy tacos marks in certain areas of iowa and within a mile radius of any rudy tacos restaurant. the license agreement may be terminated by either party for breach or in the case of insolvency or bankruptcy. company can terminate the license agreement if company decides that the happy joe franchise system will no longer offer rudy tacos menu items or if any action by larosa or its licensed users of the rudy tacos marks adversely affect the reputation of the rudy tacos marks or rudy tacos menu items. if the license agreement expires or terminates for any reason you will have days notice to cease offering the rudy tacos menu items at your franchised facility. this may adversely affect your return on the investment you made in the rudy tacos add on to your business and your total revenues. area development agreement under the area development agreement you do not have the right to use the marks in any manner. all of the rights to use the marks are derived solely by entering into a franchise agreement with company. you will have no right to license others to operate a business using the system or the marks. item. patents copyrights and proprietary information company is the owner of copyright registration number a on file in the. register of copyrights office for the menu used by franchisees and copyright registration number vau on file in the. register of copyrights office for the happy joe pizza ice cream trademark artwork. you nan ii. fi cnmnanv nnnvrinhtfid mf nn anri artwork riiirinn thr tprm nf the franr hi.ir thprp arp nn no other patents or copyrights are material to the franchise. if it becomes advisable at any time in the sole discretion of company to acquire a patent or copyright you are obligated to use the patent or copyright as company requires. you can use the confidential information in the manual as described in item of this disclosure document. although company has not filed an application for copyright registration for the manual company claims common law copyrights to the manual which is company confidential information. you must promptly notify company when you learn of an unauthorized use of the confidential information or the manual. company is not obligated to take any action against any unauthorized user of the confidential information or the manual but will respond to this information as company thinks appropriate. company is not obligated to indemnify you for losses brought by a third party concerning your use of this information. you will receive proprietary confidential and trade secret information of company. you must maintain the confidentiality of this information unless company authorizes otherwise in writing. you will divulge confidential information only to employees who must know it to operate the franchised facility. all information knowledge and know how which company designates as confidential will be deemed confidential for purposes of the franchise agreement except information which you can demonstrate lawfully came to your attention before company disclosure or which at the time of company disclosure to you had lavrfully become a part of the public domain or which after company disclosure to you lav fully becomes a part of the public domain. you will not divulge to any person or other entity any information trade secrets ingredients recipes cooking techniques and processes used with the proprietary products menu items and other food and beverage products used in the system or any information stated in the manual. company may authorize you to use certain copyrighted or copyrightable works copyrighted works. the copyrighted works are the valuable property of company or a related entity. your rights to use the copyrighted works are granted to you solely on the condition that you comply with the terms of the franchise agreement. company owns or is the licensee of the copyrighted works and will create acquire or obtain licenses for certain copyrights in various works of authorship used in the operation of a happy joe franchised facility including all categories of works eligible for protection under the united states copyright law all of which will be considered copyrighted works under the franchise agreement. these copyrighted works include the manual advertisements promotional materials posters and signs and may include the marks software trade dress and other portions of the system. company intends that all works of authorship concerning the system which are created in the future will be owned by it or a related entity. if you develop any new program recipe food product project work of art or other material in the course of operating your franchised facility and company approves the use and sale of this item in the hj fdd franchised facility this new item will automatically become the property of company as though company had developed the item itself works for hire. the manual belongs to company and you must return it to company upon the expiration or termination of the franchise agreement. you must not copy disclose or use the manual in an unauthorized way you must keep the manual updated and at the franchised facility at all times. if there is a dispute with the contents of the manual the terms of company master copy will control. when not in use the manual must be kept in a locked receptacle at the premises. you must not use in advertising or any other form of promotion the copyrighted materials or other commercial symbols of company without the appropriate notices which may be required by law or company including or other copyright registration notice. all of your employees having access to company confidential and proprietary information and all of your management personnel receiving training from company must sign non disclosure agreements in a form that is acceptable to company conversion franchise under the conversion franchise agreement you will be bound by the restrictions on the use of confidential information set out in the franchise agreement regardless of the fact that you have operated or been employed by a similar business. all information pertaining to your customers before the date you signed the franchise agreement will be deemed to be confidential information as that term is defined in the franchise agreement. area devefooment aoreement the area development agreement does not grant you any right to use any of company trade secret and or confidential information. the area development agreement does not grant you any right to any copyright or patent which company now owns or may own in the future. rights to the trade secrets confidential information copyrights or patents are granted only under the franchise agreements that you and company sign. item. obligation to participate in the actual operation of the franchise business you or a trained and competent employee acting as a full time manager must directly supervise the franchised facility. even if you employ a full time manager you will remain obligated to supervise the operations of the franchised facility. you must keep company informed of the identlty ies of your manager. if you hire a substitute or additional manager you must make sure that the manager receives training from company and completes it to company satisfaction. your manager need not hj fdd have an ownership interest in you but must have some prearranged profit participation in the franchised facility. see items and for information concerning managers and confidentiality agreements and covenants not to compete. while company encourages your direct on site supervision of the franchised facility you are not restricted in hiring managers who meet company training requirements. you must at all times faithfully honestly and diligently perform your obligations under the franchise agreement and not engage in any business or other activities which conflict with those obligations. item. restrictions on what the franchisee may sell you must offer and sell at retail only those goods and services that company has approved. menu items and other food and beverage products will be prepared only by properiy trained personnel strictly according to company recipes techniques and processes and as required in the manual. all items offered from the franchised facility will be sold only at retail to customers. all menu items and other designated food products must be prepared according to company designated recipes techniques and processes. these recipes techniques and processes are integral to the system and failure to use them will be detrimental to the system and the marks. you are prohibited from offering and selling any pizzas that are not fully baked and ready for consumption. the full size restaurant and delco facility may offer for sale or sell beer and or wine at the franchised facility subject to your compliance with any applicable liquor laws and permits. however you must not offer for sale or sell any other alcoholic beverages. company has the right to add additional authorized products and services that you must offer. there are no limits on company right to do so. you must use only displays trays napkins menus boxes bags wrapping paper labels forms and other paper and plastic products imprinted with the marks and colors. you may not install or maintain on the premises of the full size restaurant or delco facility except for delco colorado brand facilities any newspaper racks video games juke boxes gaming machines gum machines games rides vending machines punchboards raffles or other similar devices without company written approval. you cannot display any third party sign at the franchised facility that is inconsistent with the system the franchised facility family atmosphere or to which company objects. hj fdd you cannot conduct targeted marketing directed to particular addresses in the designated delivery area of another franchisee. you cannot deliver products to customers located outside your designated delivery area unless you obtain company prior written consent the delivery location is not within the designated delivery area of another franchisee and subject to the standards specifications and procedures on delivery as set forth in the manual. see item for further information on restrictions regarding customers. satellite the satellite does not offer delivery service or the other services offered by the full size restaurant and the delco facility such as birthday party and fun center services. the menu offered by the satellite will be more limited than the menu of the full size restaurant and the standard delco facility depending on market size and conditions. the menu offered by the delco colorado brand facility may be more limited than the menu of the standard delco facility. you and company will agree on the menu items which you may offer from the satellite and the delco colorado brand facility before you purchase the franchise and will list the permitted items in a rider to the satellite location addendum and the delco colorado brand facility addendum. you may not sell beer and or wine from the satellite. packaged alcoholic beverages may be sold from the premises on which the satellite is located as long as the sale is not made by or through the franchised facility. you will only be required to use a limited number of products imprinted with the marks at the satellite and delco colorado brand facility. rudy tacos when you sign the rudy tacos amendment. company will determine what rudy tacos menu items you can offer at your franchised facility. conversion franchise before you open the franchised facility you must remove all inventory products signs and equipment which do not conform with the system are not approved by the company or which do not meet the standards and specifications described in company manual. as of the date you open your business as a franchised facility you must identify and represent your business as a happy joe franchised facility through the use and display of the marks. during a period of year from your beginning of business as a happy joe franchisee you may display with company written approval secondary signage of the size content and style as company describes in its manual for the purpose of advising the public of your former trade name. however on your first anniversary as a happy joe franchisee or as othena ise agreed you must cease using all references to your former trade name and carry out your business activity only as a happy joe franchisee and only hj fdd under the marks. you will at all times conduct the franchised facility in compliance with the system and stop providing services or using equipment inventory products or signs which company has not designated to be the components of the system. item. renewal. termination. transfer and dispute resolution the franchise relationship this table lists certain important provisions of the franchise and related agreements. you should read these provisions in the agreements attached to this disclosure document. provision in franchise agreement unless otherwise specified provision summary a length of the franchise term paragraph ii. satellite location addendum paragraph rudy amendment paragraph. the term is years from the date the franchise agreement is signed for the full size restaurant and delco facility. the term of the satellite addendum is for the balance of the initial term of the franchise agreement or until the lease for the satellite location expires whichever is earlier. the rudy amendment will expire with the franchise agreement unless company license is terminated or expires eariier. renewal or extension of term paragraph ii. satellite location addendum paragraph. if you have complied with all of the provisions in the franchise agreement you can renew for additional term of years. you can choose whether to renew the satellite addendum. hj fdd provision in franchise agreement unless otherwise specified provision summary. requirements for you to renew or extend paragraphs ii. and. you may renew the franchise agreement if you have compiled with all of the franchise agreement provisions you are not in default of the franchise agreement you maintain possession of the premises and have brought the franchised facility into compliance with company current standards you have given notice of renewal to company you have satisfied all monetary obligations owned to company and its related companies you have signed a new agreement and paid the renewal fee you have met current training requirements and you have signed a general release. the new agreement you must sign may contain materially different terms and conditions from your original agreement. you must give company notice of your intent to. renew between and months before the franchise agreement expires. company will give you notice of its intent not to renew along with specific reasons at least months before your franchise agreement expires. termination by you paragraph xvi. rudy amendment paragraph. you may terminate the franchise agreement if you are in compliance and company materially breaches the franchise agreement and fails to cure within days of receiving your written notice. you may terminate the rudy amendment for any reason by giving company days notice. termination by company without cause none in franchise agreement rudy amendment paragraph. the franchise agreement does not contain a provision allowing company to terminate the franchise agreement without cause. company can terminate the rudy agreement upon days notice if company license is terminated for any reason. termination by company with cause paragraphs xvi. and rudy amendment paragraph. company may terminate the franchise agreement upon delivery of notice to you if you default under the terms of the franchise agreement. cause defined curable defaults paragraph xvi. rudy amendment paragraph. the following events constitute curable defaults you fail or refuse to make payments due to company or its affiliates and do not cure within business days or you fail to comply with mandatory specifications in franchise agreement and do not cure within days. hj fdd provision in franchise agreement unless otherwise specified provision summary. cause defined non curable defaults paragraph xvi. rudy amendment paragraph. the following events constitute non curable defaults you fail to complete training make a material misrepresentation or omission in the franchise application are convicted of or plead no contest to a felony or other crime or offense that can adversely affect the reputation of you or the franchised facility misuse the manual marks or software if developed abandon business for business days in any month period surrender control of the franchised facility submit reports understating royalty fees by more than for periods totaling or more weeks more than twice during the term of the franchise fail to submit reports on occasions in any month period continue to violate any health safety or sanitation law or operation in a manner that presents a health or safety hazard default on any provision of your lease or your bankruptcy. i your obligations on termination non renewal paragraph xvii satellite location addendum paragraph delco colorado brand facility addendum paragraph rudy amendment paragraph. your obligations include stop operations of the franchised facility assign your lease to company at company option stop using the marks and items bearing the marks assign any assumed names to company delaware identify the premises from any confusingly similar decoration design or other imitation of a happy joe business stop advertising as a franchised facility pay all sums owed to company pay all of company damages and costs in enforcing the termination provisions of the franchise agreement return all manuals and other confidential information and property to company return all signs to company sell to company at company option all assets and items beanng the marks assign your telephone and facsimile numbers to company at company option and comply with the covenants not to compete. assignment of contract by company paragraph xviii. there is no restriction on company right to transfer except that the transferee must be willing and able to fulfill company obligations. hj fdd provision provision in franchise agreement unless otherwise specified summary. transfer by you definition paragraph xvill. satellite location addendum paragraph rudy amendment paragraph. you may transfer the franchise agreement and all rights under the franchise agreement subject to certain restrictions. you cannot transfer rights under the satellite location addendum or the rudy amendment apart from the franchise agreement. company approval of transfer by you paragraph xvill. company has the right to approve all of your transfers but will not unreasonably withhold approval. conditions for company approval of transfer paragraphs xvill. and. for a transfer to a third party the transferee must meet company qualifications successfully.complete the training program and sign the current franchise agreement. you will pay all sums owed to company and sign a general release. transfer fee must be paid see item for more information. if you are transferring to an entity you own and formed solely for the purposes of operating the franchised facility you must remain the owner of the majority interest of that entity. you must promptly give company written notice whenever you receive a third party offer to buy your franchise. you must simultaneously give the company written notice whenever you offer to sell your franchise. you may not advertise that the franchised facility is for sale without company written consent. you are not relieved from complying with the covenants not to compete if you transfer the franchise unless company consents in writing. company right of first refusal to acquire your business paragraphs xx. and xvii. company has the right of first refusal to purchase a franchised facility or its assets which are for sale and for which you have received a good faith offer to purchase. company has days from notice of the offer to purchase the franchised facility or its assets at the same terms as contained in the offer. company option to purchase your business paragraphs xx. and xvii. company has the right to purchase your business for days from date of delivery of written offer. company may purchase the assets of the franchised facility at fair market value within days after expiration or termination of the franchise agreement. hj fdd provision in franchise agreement unless otherwise specified provision summary. your death or disability paragraphs xix. and. your heirs beneficiaries devisees or legal representative can apply to company to continue operation of the franchised facility or sell or otherwise transfer interest in the franchised facility within days of death or incapacity. if they fail to do so the franchise agreement will terminate and company will have the option to buy the franchised facility. non commission petifion covenants during the term of the franchise paragraphs xv. and. conversion franchise agreement paragraph iv. you must not divert or attempt to divert any business or customer to a competitor or perform any act which may harm the goodwill associated with the marks and the system employ or seek to employ any person then employed by company or another franchisee of company or othenwise cause that person to leave his or her employ or own or otherwise have any interest in any business including a business you currently operate but excluding any businesses specifically identified in the franchise agreement specializing in the wholesale or retail sale of prepared food products the same as or similar to any product or service provided through the system unless company agrees otherwise. your personnel performing managerial or supervisory functions and all personnel receiving training from company may be required to sign covenants in a form satisfactory to company. even though you operated a business similar to the franchised facility before you signed the conversion addendum and franchise agreement you will be bound by company in term and post term covenants not to compete. hj fdd provision in franchise agreement unless otherwise specified provision summary non commission pefifion covenants after the franchise is terminated or expires paragraphs xvi. and rudy amendment paragraph. you must not own or operate a business which sells prepared food products or services the same as or similar to any other product or service provided through the system for year after the franchise agreement is terminated within the metropolitan statisfical area as defined by the. census bureau within a mile radius of the franchised facility premises or within a mile radius of any other business using the system. see above for more information on covenants. for year after the rudy amendment is terminated you cannot be involved in any business that sells mexican food within a mile radius of the franchised facility premises. modification of the agreement paragraphs viii. and xxvii. the franchise agreement can be modified only by written agreement between company and you. company can modify or change the system through changes in the manual. integration merger paragraphs xxvii. and clause xxviii. conversion franchise agreement paragraph. only the terms of the franchise agreement and this disclosure document are binding oubioct to state law and. the franchise agreement mav only be modified to the extent required by an appropriate court to make the franchise agreement enforceable. franchieo agreement supercodos all previous discussions negotiofions and agreements whether oral or written. if there is a conflict between the terms of the franchise agreement and conversion addendum the terms of the conversion addendum will prevail. dispute resolufion by arbitration or mediation none the franchise agreement does not provide for dispute resolution by arbitration or mediafion. choice of forum paragraph xxix. any action will be brought in the appropriate state or federal court in iowa subject to state law. choice of law section xiv. the laws of the state where the franchised facility is located apply subject to state law except that disputes regarding the marks will be governed by the united states trademark act of lanham act. second et seq. hj fdd the area development relationship this table lists certain important provisions of the area development agreement. you should read these provisions in the agreement attached to this disclosure document. provision provision in area development agreement summary a length of term of the area development agreement paragraph iv. the area development agreement expires on the date of terminafion or expirafion of the last franchise agreement developed under the area development agreement. renewal or extension of term not applicable the area development agreement does not provide for renewal or the extension of its term. requirements for you to renew or extend not applicable see above. termination by you not applicable the area development agreement does not contain a provision allowing you to terminate the area development agreement for any reason. termination by company without cause not applicable the area development agreement does not provide for its terminafion without cause. termination by company with cause paragraphs vii. if you are in default of the area development agreement company may terminate the area development agreement reduce the number of franchised businesses reduce or terminate your territorial exclusivity or right of first refusal or exercise any other rights and remedies company may have. cause defined curable defaults not applicable the area development agreement does not provide for defaults which can be cured. hj fdd provision provision in area development agreement summary. cause defined non curable defaults paragraph vii. the area development agreement will terminate automatically if you are adjudicated bankrupt or are otherwise involved in a bankruptcy proceeding if a final judgment remains unsatisfied of record for days or longer unless bond is filed if execution is levied against your business or property if a mortgage or lien foreclosure suit is insfituted against you and is not dismissed within days if you have failed to exercise options and enter into franchise agreements with company set out on your development schedule failed to comply with any other term and condition of the area development agreement make or attempt to make an unapproved transfer of the area development agreement or if you fail to comply with the terms and conditions of any franchise agreement or other agreement between you and company. i your obligations on paragraph vii. termination non renewal you will lose your options to establish an individual franchised facility for which a franchise agreement has not been signed. default under the area development agreement will not be considered a default under the franchise agreement unless specified otherwise. if you are in default of the area development agreement but are not in default under any one or all of you franchise agreements you may confinue to operate the exisfing franchised facility ies under the terms of their separate franchise agreements. assignment of contract paragraph viii. by company there is no restricfion on company right to transfer the area development agreement except that the transferee must be willing and able to perform its obligations. transfer by you definifion paragraphs viii. and. includes transfer of assets and all rights under the contract or change of ownership. you may assign the area development agreement to an entity whose business is to conduct the business contemplated by the franchise if you retain at least interest in the new entity. company approval of paragraph xvill. transfer by you company has the right to approve all of your transfers but will not unreasonably withhold approval. hj fdd provision provision in area development agreement summary. conditions for company approval of transfer paragraphs ville and. for a transfer to a third party the transferee must meet company qualifications be of good moral character have sufficient business experience aptitude and financial resources and sign the current area development agreement. you will pay all sums owed to company or affiliatoand its affiliates and sign a general release as well as pay company then current transfer fee. you must give company days written notice before any sale or assignment of the area development agreement and days written nofice of any received offer to buy your interest in the area development agreement. you must give simultaneous written nofice to company of any offer to sell an interest under the area development agreement made by you. company right of first refusal to acquire your business paragraph viii. company has the right of first refusal to purchase your ownership interest or assets which are for sale and for which you have received a good faith offer to purchase. company option to purchase your business paragraph viii. and. company has days from nofice of the offer to purchase your ownership interest or its assets at the same terms as contained in the offer. your death or disability not applicable the area development agreement does not provide for your death or disability. hj fdd provision provision in area development agreement summary non commission petifion covenants during the term of the franchise paragraphs viii. and ix. you must not divert or attempt to divert any business or customer to a competitor or perform any act which may harm the goodwill associated with the marks and the system employ or seek to employ any person then employed by company or another franchisee of company or othena ise cause that person to leave his or her employ or own or otherwise have any interest in any business including a business you currently operate specializing in the wholesale or retail sale of prepared food products the same as or similar to any product or service provided through the system unless company agrees otherwise. you will also be bound by and comply with the covenants in each area development agreement you sign with company. the covenants apply even if you have transferred your interest in the area develophnent agreement. non competition paragraphs ix. and covenants after the. franchise is terminated or expires you must not own or operate a business which sells prepared food products or services the same as or similar to any other product or service provided through the system for year after the area development agreement is terminated. the covenants apply even if you have transferred your interest in the area development agreement. modification of the agreement paragraphs xv. the area development agreement can be modified only by written agreement between company and you. integrafion merger clause paragraphs xv. and xvi. in case of confiict between the terms of the franchise agreement and the area development agreement the terms of the franchise agreement will prevail. dispute resolution by arbitration or mediation none the area development agreement does not provide for dispute resolution by arbitration or mediafion. choice of forum paragraph xvtl. any action will be brought in the appropriate state or federal court in iowa subject to state law. hj fdd provision provision in area development agreement summary. choice of law paragraph xvii. the law of the sate where the franchised facilities and developer are located applies subject to state law except that disputes regarding the marks will be governed by the united states trademark act of lanham act. second et seq. item. public figures company does not use any public figures to promote its franchise. item. financial performance representations the ftc franchise rule permits a franchisor to provide information about the actual or potenfial financial performance of its franchised and or franchisor owned oufiets if there is a reasonable basis for the information and if the information is included in the disclosure document. financial performance informafion that differs from that included in item may be given only if a franchisor provides the actual records of an existing outlet you are considering buying or a franchisor supplements the information provided in this item for example by providing information about possible performance at particular locafion or under particular circumstances. the company does not make any representations about a franchisee future financial performance or the past financial performance of company owned or franchised outlets. the company also does not authorize our employees or representatives to make any such representafions either orally or in writing. if you are purchasing an existing outlet however the company may provide you with the actual records of that outlet. if you receive any financial performance information or projecfions of your future income you should report it to the franchisor management by contacfing larry whitty happy joe drive betiendori iowa or the federal trade commission and the appropriate state regulatory agencies. hj fdd item. outlets and franchisee information table number systemwide outlet summary for years ended september to september and for quarter of year october through december column outlet type column year column outlets at the start of the year column outlets at the end of the year column net change franchised o ? oo g owned total outlets dakota south dakota oo hj fdd g table number transfers of outlets from franchisees to new owners other than the franchisor for years ended september to september and for quarter of year october through december column column column state year number of transfers illinois iowa minnesota missouri north dakota wisconsin totals hj fdd table number status franchised outlets for years ended september to september and for quarter of year october through december col. col. col. col. col. col. col i col. col. state year outlets at start of year i outlets opened termi nations non renewals reacquired by franchisor ceased operations other reasons outlets at end of the year illinois i i onnflp oi iowa oil minnesota i oil missouri north dakota hj fdd oil i wisconsin ! wisconsin ql oil totals pnnq? oil notes of the happy joe franchised restaurants as of december. were full size restaurants were delivery only facilities and were satellites. one iowa franchise temporarily ceased operating in closed due to flood damage however the franchisee plans to re open so the franchise is listed as open in this chart. the uuftoisminnesota franchise that was terminated by the company in q the first quarter of the fiscal year was terminated after the franchisee abandoned the franchise business. in one illinois franchise and iowa franchieoes shown as boing roacquirod by tho company were reacquired after the franchisees ceased operating and abandoned the franchico businesses. as of decembor tho company affiliate had re oponod of the rectauranto. hj fdd table number status of company owned outlets for years ended september to september and for quarter of year october through december col col. col col. col col ! col. col. state year outfets at outlets outlets outlets outlets outfets at start of opened reacquired closed sold to end of the year from franchisee the year franchisee illinois illinois illinois. illinois iowa iowa north dakota north dakota north dakota north dakota totals notes all outlets are owned and operated by the company affiliate happy joo pizza ico cream parlor. incorporated the following franchises currently one franchise reported in table number are rockford. illinois is owned by ajoint ventures that have yenture with some common ownership with the company frooport illinois rockford illinois and polla. iowa. as of the date of this disclosure document we do not have any aetive area developers. hj fdd table number projected openings as of september state franchise agreements signed but business not open projected new franchised openings in the next fiscal year projected company or affiliate owned openings in next fiscal year full delco satellite illinois iowa minnesota missouri north dakota wisconsin totals company also has license agreements with restaurants in iowa for the right to sell branded happy joe products. list of happy joe franchised facilities as of december and a list of happy joe restaurants owned by happy joe pizza ice cream parlor incorporated as of december are attached as exhibit. the names city and state and telephone numbers of every franchisee who has had an outlet terminated canceled not renewed or otherwise voluntarily or involuntarily ceased to do business under the franchise agreement during the year ending september or the first quarter ending december or who has not communicated with the franchisor within weeks of the date of this disclosure document are listed in exhibit. if you buy this franchise your contact information may be disclosed to other buyers when you leave the franchise system. one agreement containing a confidentiality clause has been signed with a franchisee in the last fiscal years. the following is a trademark specific franchisee association that was created and is sponsored by the company happy joe national franchise board happy joe drive bettendorf iowa president rodrtjbensrick anderson. oldridqq happviooc.com. anderson q ajvousa.net. there are no franchisee organizations that have asked to be disclosed in our hj fdd disclosure document. item. financial statements attached as exhibit are the company audited balance sheets as of september. tense and and and the related statements of income and retained earnings and cash flows for the years ended september. and. these financial statements have audited by independent certified public accountants. item. contracts the franchise agreement and the following exhibits are attached to this disclosure document as exhibit exhibit description of designated delivery area exhibit authorization for electronic transfer of funds exhibit guaranty and assumption of obligations exhibit conversion franchise addendum exhibit delco colorado brand facility franchise addendum exhibit collateral assignment of lease exhibit conditional assignment of telephone numbers the area development agreement is attached as exhibit. the satellite location addendum which you must sign to open a satellite location is attached as exhibit. the installment note and security agreement which you will sign if company finances any portion of your initial franchise fee are attached as exhibit. the rudy tacos amendment to franchise agreement that you must sign to offer rudy menu items is attached as exhibit. if you are in a registration state that requires company to enter into a state specific addendum to the franchise agreement the addendum will be attached as exhibit. company provides no other contracts or agreements for you to sign hj fdd financial statements of happy joe franchising incorporated exhibit to the franchise disclosure document hj fdd happy joe franchising incorporated independent auditor report financial statements september and happy joe franchising incorporated table of contents page independent auditor report financial statements balance sheets statements of income statements of stockholder equity statements of cash flows notes to finajicial statements abelmann associates. i i pvi ic accoun tan independent auditor report the board of directors happy joe franchising incorporated we have audited the accompanying balance sheets of happy joe franchising incorporated as of september and and the related statements of income stockholder equity and cash flows for the years then ended. these fmancial statements are the sponsibilitj of the company management. our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. we conducted our audits in accordance with. generally accepted auditing standards. those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the nnancial statements are free of material mis state.ent. an audit includes examining on a test basis vidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. we believe that our audits pro dde a reasonable basis for our opinion. in our opinion the financial statements referred to above present fairly in all material respects the financial position of happy joe franchising incorporated as of september and and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the years then ended in confomiitv with. generally accepted accounting principles. bettendorf iowa december river drive suite bettendori franchising incorporated balance sheets september and assets current assets cash and cash equivalents receivables note franchisees net of allowance for doubtful accounts of in and other total receivables inventories prepaid expenses total current assets marketable equity securities other assets net of accumulated amortization of and liabilities and stockholder equity current liabilities accounts payable deferred revenue current total current liabilities deferred revenue net of current portion total liabilities commitments notes and stockholder equity common stock no par value authorized shares issued and outstanding shares retained earnings accumulated other comprehensive income unrealized gain loss on marketable equity securities available for sale total stockholder eqnit. south south i saints south see accomparyring notes to inancia statements. happy joe franchising incorporated statements of income years ended september and revenues royalties and franchise fees net trademark fees and other income commissarj sales total revenues costs and expenses cost of commissary sales payroll and related costs operating expenses total costs and expenses income from operations other income expense interest and investment incom. loss interest expense miscellaneous income net income sl. see accompanying notes to fmancial statements. happy incorporated statements of stockholder equi ty years ended september and balance september distributions comprehensive income net income other comprehensive loss change in unreaiized gain loss on marketable eq iit securities total comprehensive income balance september distributions comprehensive income net income other comprehensive income change in unrealized loss on marketable equir securities total comprehensive income balance september distributions comprehensive income net income other comprehensive income change in unrealized loss on marketable equity securities total comprehensive income balance september common stock retained earnings accumulated other comprehensive comprehensive income income flcssl. !. !. total. see accompanying notes to inancial statements. happy joe franchising incorporated statements of cash flows years ended september and cash flows froih operating activities net income adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities amortization line loss gain on sale of investments decrease increase in receivables increase decrease in inventories increase decrease in prepaid expenses decrease in accounts payable increase decrease in deferred revenue. net cash pro dded by operating activities. cash flows from investing activities purchase of investments proceeds from sale of investments. net cash provided used by investing activities. cash flows from financing activities distributions paid net cash used by financing activities net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents cash and cash equivalents beginning of year. cash and cash equivalents end of year south south supplemental disclosure of cash flow information cash paid during the year for interest. see accompanying notes to financial statem.ents. happy joe franchising incorporated notes to financial statements september and nature of business and summary of significant accounting policies nature of business happy joe franchising incorporated the company was incorporated on august and is a wholly new english dictionary subsidiary of happy joe pizza ice cream parlor incorporated happy joe. the operations of the company consist of franchisor rights for as of september franchised and licensed pizza and ice cream stores located in the midwest region of the united states and the granting of franchises for future happy joe restaurants note. during the year ended september one franchise was sold. summary of significant accounting policies a cash and cash equivalents cash and cash equivalents includes money market accounts which amounted to a at september and respectively and funds invested in a sweep account of and at september and respectively. for purposes of reporting cash flov. the company considers all highly hquid investmicnts with original maturities of six months or less to be cash equivalents. at year end and throughout the year the company cash balances were deposited at two fmancial institutions. the company has not experienced any losses cn its cash equivalents and it is management belief that the company is not exposed to any significant credit risk on cash and cash equivalents. accounts receivable accounts receivable are carried at original invoice amount less an estimate for doubtful receivables. management determines the allowance for doubtful accounts by identifying troubled accounts and using historical bad debt experience. accounts receivable are written off henry deemed uncollectible and recoveries of written off accounts are recorded when received. the expense for doubtful or uncollectible receivables was and for and respectively. inventories inventories consist of commissary products and are stated at the lower of cost or market net realizable value. cost has been determined for substantially all inventories under the average cost method. happy joe franchising incorporated notes to financial statem ents nature of business and summary of significant accounting policies continued summary of significant accounting policies continued royalties and franchise fees the company receives initial franchise fees which are recoginzed as income at the time the anchise agreem entomology is executed. franchise revenue included in royalties and franchise fees was and for tiie years ended september and respectively. the initial term of franchise agreements is fifteen years with a renewal option for one additional term often years. the company records royalty revenues based on a percentage of the franchisees actual or estimated monthly sales which are recognized when billed. royalty revenues based on estimated franchise sales are adjusted to actual when pennsylvania tnents are received from the franchisees. during the company implemented a royalty credit incentive program and a matching royalty program to assist new franchises with cash flow during the first four months of operations and to provide an incentive to existing franchises to upgrade their facilities.enus or operations. total credits issued under these programs were and for the years ended september and respectively and have been recorded as a reduction of royalty and franchise fee revenue trademark fees the company receives fees in connection with the use of the happy joe trademarks and logos which are recorded as income as received. use of estimates the preparation of financial statements in conformity vith. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. actual results could differ from those estimates. happy joe franchising incorporated notes to financial statements nature of business and summan of significant accounting policies continued summary of significant accounting policies continued income taxes the parent company sole stockholder of happy joe francliising incorporated has elected to be treated as a tax option corporation under the subchapter provision of section a of the internal revenue code which provides for the flow through of taxable income or losses to the owtier. accordingly happy joe franchising incorporated is a qualified subchapter corporation subsidiaia and is also treated as a tax option corporation under the subchapter provision. consequently no provision for income tax expense has been provided for in the financial statements. the companj adopted the provisions of fasb interpretation accounting for uncertainty in income taxes fasc asc income taxes effective october. management has determined that there are not any income tax positions that expose the company to uncertainty that are required to be recorded or disclosed in accordance witii asc. fair value measurements the company adopted the financial accounting standards ejoard fasb accounting standards codification asc fair value measurements and disclosures effective october. asc defines fair value establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosure of fair value measurement. marketable equity securities are comprised of individual stocks and mutual funds and are measured for fair value using level inputs at september. asc defines level inputs as fair value measurement ents that use quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets. related party transactions effective september happy joe pizza ice cream parlor incorporated happy joe assigned to the company all its right title and interest in and to the happy joe proprietary products the system of operation for happy joe restaurants and all of the trademarks service marks logos and trade names used in the operation of happy joe restaurants. it also assigned to happy joe franchising incorporated all its right tide and interest in franchise agreements. the company was initially capitalized by happy joe through a transfer of into a money market account. happy joe franchising incorporated notes to financial statements related party transactions continued substantially all revenues of the company are collected directly by the company while substantially all expenses are paid by happy joe and allocated to the company. the company records this activity in an intercompany account with happy joe. at year end the board of directors declares a dividend to happy joe equal to the net accumulated acti dty in the intercompany account. the amount of di ddend declared and paid to happy joe was and for the years ended september and respectively. expenses allocated to the company are based on happy joe estimates of actual time and expenses associated with the franchising activities. rent expense allocated to the company for use of happy joe facilirv amounted to and in and respectively. the company also paid and in and respectively to happy joe national franchise board incorporated for advertising and related services. the company assets and franchise rights are included as security for and the company is an unlimited colorado guarantor of various indebtedness of happy joe and or other related parties as follows kjtlj. a related party entered into a loan agreement dth a bank that had an outstanding balance of at september. the agreement contains fmancial covenants that must be maintained by kjtlj. at december kjtlj. was in default of certain financial covenants. kjtlj. obtained a waiver for not being in compliance at december. the loan matures january. kjtlj. was in compliance with the financial covenants as of december. happy joe entered into a loan agreement ith a bank that had an outstanding balance of at september. the agreement contains fmancial covenants that.ust be maintained by happy joe. at june happy joe was in compliance with these covenants. the loan matures february. happy joe entered into a loan agreement with a bank that had an outstanding balance of at september. the agreement contains financial covenants that must be maintained by happy joe. at june happy joe was in compliance with these covenants. the loan matures december. the company receives royalty income from several franchisees in which happy joe pizza east ice cream parlor incorporated is a majority owner. happy joe franchising incorporated notes to financial statements subsequent events and contingencies on october the com.pany adopted changes issued by the financial accounting standards board fasb related to disclosure of subsequent events. these changes require the disclosure of the date through which an entity has evaluated subsequent events and the basis for that date that is whether that date represents the date the financial statements were issued or were available to be issued. the company has evaluated subsequent events through december and has determined that no significant events which affect subsequent ev ents and contingencies have occurred. the company is subject to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the ordinary course of its business. in the opinion of management the amount of ultimate habihtj with respect to these actions wrl not materially affect the financial position of the company. happy joe franchising incorporated franchise agreement exhibit to the franchise disclosure document hj fa. table of contents paragraph page. appointment and franchise fee ii. term and renewal mill restaurant location iv. training and assistance. proprietary marks virgin islands confidential operations manual vii. confidential information viii. modification of the system ix. advertising. continuing services and royalty fee xi. accounting and records reporting xii. standards of quality and performance xiii. franchisor operations assistance xiv. insurance xv. covenants xvi. default and termination xvii. rights and duties of parties upon expiration or termination xviii. transferability of interest xix. death or incapacity of franchisee xx. right of first refusal xxi. operation in the event of absence incapacity or death xxii. independent contractor and indemnification xxiii. non waiver xxiv. notices xxv. cost of enforcement or defense xxvi. approvals xxvii. entire agreement xxviii. severability and construction xxix. appucable law xxx. force majeure xxxi. franchisee defined and guaranty xxxii. caveat xxxiii. acknowledgements hj fa. i i i exhibits. description of designated delivery area. authorization for electronic transfer of funds. guaranty and assumption of obligations. conversion franchise addendum. delco colorado brand faciuty franchise addendum. collateral assignment of lease. conditional assignment of telephone numbers hj fa. happy joe franchising incorporated franchise agreement this franchise agreement this agreement made this day of. by and between happy joe franchising incorporated an iowa corporation having its principal place of business at happy joe drive bettendorf iowa franchisor and franchisee. witnesseth whereas franchisor over a period of time and as the result of the expenditure of time expertise effort and money i has developed and owns a unique system system identified by the mark happy joe relating fo the establishment development and operation of a restaurant facility offering on premises dining carry out and or delivery services providing premium quality pizza ice cream pasta spaghetti fresh baked sandwiches salads and other food and beverage products all prepared in accordance with specified recipes and procedures menu items and featuring birthday party and fun center services ii has developed and continues to further develop a proprietary line of specially formulated pizza dough spices sauces ice cream ice cream toppings and other food products and related equipment proprietary products iii has developed certain presentation packaging and marketing standards and techniques for all menu items and proprietary products and iv has developed consumer acceptance for all menu items proprietary products and services franchised facility which franchised facility may be a happy joe full size restaurant or a happy joe delivery only facility delco facility and whereas the distinguishing characteristics of the system include without jimitation distinctive exterior and interior layout design and color scheme exclusively designed signage decorations furnishings and materials special recipes formulae menus and food and beverage designations a collection of confidential operations manuals relating to the franchised facility manual which may be contained in one or more volumes the proprietary products the proprietary software package software if developed food and beverage storage preparation and service procedures and techniques operating procedures for sanitation and maintenance and methods and techniques for inventory and cost controls record keeping and reporting personnel management purchasing sales promotion and advertising all of which may be changed impnsved and further developed by franchisor from time to time and whereas franchisor is the owner of the right title and interest together with all the goodwill connected thereto in and to the trade names. service marks and trademarks happy joe happy joe plus the design associated logos commercial symbols and such other trade names service marks and trademarks as are now designated and may hereinafter be designated by franchisor in writing as part hj fa. of the system markfs and whereas franchisor shall continue to develop use and control such marks for the benefit and use of itself and its franchisees in order to identify for the public the source of food products and services marketed thereunder and to represent the system high standards of quality regarding menu items operations food products ingredients appearance and service and whereas franchisor grants to qualified persons franchises to own and operate happy joe restaurants offering food products and services authorized and approved by franchisor and utilizing the system and marks. franchisee desires to operate a happy joe restaurant using the system and marks and has applied for a franchise which application has been approved by franchisor in reliance upon all of the representations made therein and whereas franchisee understands and acknowledges the importance of franchisor high and uniform standards of quality operations and customer service and the necessity of operating the happy joe restaurant in conformity with franchisor standards and specifications and whereas franchisor expressly disclaims the making of and franchisee acknowledges that it has not received nor relied upon any warranty or guaranty express or implied as to the revenues profits or success of the business venture contemplated by this agreement. franchisee acknowledges that it has read this agreement and franchisor franchise disclosure document and that it has no knowledge of any representations by franchisor or its officers directors shareholders employees or agents that are contrary to the statements made in franchisor franchise disclosure document or to the terms herein. now therefore the parties in consideration of the undertakings and commitments of each party to the other set forth in this agreement hereby agree as follows. appointment and franchise fee. franchisor hereby grants to franchisee upon the terms and conditions herein contained the right license and privilege to use the mark happy joe and the other marks and franchisee undertakes the obligation to operate a happy joe restaurant facility featuring the menu items and offering carry out and on premises dining services and or delivery services and to use solely in connection therewith the system as it is currently established and as it may be changed improved and further developed from time to time at one location only such location to be. premises or. at a location to be designated as provided in paragraph iii. hereof within the following area provided however that when a location has been designated and approved by the parties said location shall become paragraph. as if originally hj fa. incorporated therein. franchisee shall not relocate its franchised facility without the prior written approval of franchisor. franchisor shall not so long as this agreement is in force and effect and franchisee is not in default under any of the terms hereof enfranchise or operate any other happy joe full size restaurant or delco facility within a three mile radius of the premises described in paragraph i above exclusive territory. franchisor has the right in its sole discretion to grant such other franchises outside of the exclusive territory as franchisor in its sole and exclusive discretion deems appropriate. although franchisor or any affiliate shall not operate a happy joe business within the exclusive territory franchisor and any affiliate reserves the right both within and outside of the exclusive territory to grant the right to an existing franchisee to establish a satellite location and to offer and sell at wholesale retail or through any other distribution system products and services which comprise may in the future comprise or which do not comprise a part of the system including but not limited to the proprietary products which products may be resold at retail or through any other distribution channel under the marks or other trademarks or service marks. includinqt but not limited to supermarkets and other retail facilities afid the internet and as menu items in other food service units to the general public by such entities. franchisor and any affiliate further reserves the right both within and outside the exclusive territory to sell at both wholesale and retail all products and services which do not comprise a part of the system. franchisor and any affiliate also reserves the right both within and outside the exclusive temtory to establish food service units operating under a format and trademarks and service marks distinct from the happy joe system. franchisee shall engage only in the retail sale of menu items and franchisee agrees not to engage in the wholesale sale and or distribution of any product offered for sale through the franchised facility except if authorized in writing by franchisor. wholesale sale and or distribution shall mean any sale and or distribution of product by franchisee to a third party for resale retail sale or further distribution by such third party. in consideration of the franchise granted herein franchisee shall pay to franchisor an initial franchise fee determined in accordance with the following schedule initial the provision that applies. the initial franchise fee for a full size restaurant franchise is twenty wvethirty thousand dollars. the initial franchise fee for a delco facility franchise is twenty five thousand dollars. hj fa. for a franchisee who executes a conversion franchise agreement the initial franchise fee for a full size restaurant franchise is twenty five thousand dollars. for a franchisee who executes a conversion franchise agreement the initial franchise fee for a delco facility franchise is fifteentwenty thousand dollars. the initial franchise fee is due in full upon execution of this agreement. said fee shall be deemed fully earned and non refundable upon execution of this agreement as consideration for expenses incurred by franchisor in furnishing assistance and services to franchisee and for franchisor lost or deferred opportunity to franchise others except as may be othenvise specifically provided in this agreement. franchisee at all times shall use its best efforts to promote and increase the sales and service of menu items to affect the widest and best possible distribution of menu items from franchisee happy joe restaurant and to solicit all potential customers for the sale of happy joe food products and services from franchisee happy joes restaurant. franchisee failure to devote its best efforts to adequately represent the happy joe restaurant in franchisee area through its sales and service efforts shall be deemed just cause for termination. designated delivery area for franchisee will be agreed upon by franchisor and franchisee and will be described in writing in exhibit to this agreement and on a map attached thereto. franchisee is prohibited from providing delivery service to any location outside the designated delivery area unless franchisee obtains the prior written consent of franchisor to do so. all other happy joe franchisees and any happy joe restaurants owned by franchisor or an affiliate will be prohibited from delivering to customers within your designated delivery area except if you fail to provide proper delivery service to customers in the manner specified in the manual and except for happy joe franchisees under previous franchise agreements that do not contain restrictions on delivery. if you obtain the franchisor consent to deliver outside of the designated delivery area and subject to standards specifications and procedures for delivery as set forth in the operations manual you may deliver outside of the designated delivery area as long as the area does not fall within the designated delivery area assigned to another happy joe franchisee. if the area is later assigned to a happy joe franchisee you must immediately cease all deliveries to customers located in the other franchisee designated delivery area. throughout the term of the franchise. franchisee is strictly prohibited from conducting targeted marketing to promote its franchised facility within the designated delivery area of another happy joe franchisee. targeted marketing shall include all forms of advertising and promotion for customers which can reasonably be restricted to an address including but not limited to direct mailings. hj fa. door leaflets telephone solicitation and localized signs. the purpose of this restriction includes but is not limited to. preventing confusion in the market place among happy joe franchisees soliciting the same customers. franchisee acknowledges that because complete and detailed uniformity under many varying conditions may not be possible or practical. franchisor specifically reserves the right and privilege at its sole discretion and as it may deem in the best interests of all concerned in any specific instance to vary standards for any system franchisee based upon the peculiarities of the particular site or circumstance density of population business potential population of trade area existing business practices or any other condition which franchisor deems to be of importance to the successful operation of such franchisee business. franchisee shall not be entitled to require franchisor to grant to franchisee a like or similar variation hereunder. ii. term and renewal. initial tenm this agreement shall be effective and binding from the date of its execution for an initial term equal to fifteen years commencing on the date of this agreement. renewal term and requirements. franchisee shall have the right to renew this franchise before the expiration of the initial term of the franchise for one additional successive term of ten years providing all of the conditions hereinafter set forth have been fulfilled. franchisee has during the entire term of this agreement complied with alj its provisions. at the time of giving notice of renewal to franchisor franchisee is not in default under any terms of this agreement nor has franchisee at any time during the term of this agreement been in material default under any provisions of this agreement. franchisee maintains possession of the franchised facility and before the expiration date of this agreement has brought the franchised facility into full compliance with the specifications and standards then applicable for new or renewing happy joe restaurants and presents evidence satisfactory to franchisor that it has the right to remain in possession of the premises for the duration of any renewal term within two weeks after notifying franchisor of its desire to renew or in the event franchisee is unable to maintain possession of the premises or if in the judgment of franchisor the premises should be relocated. franchisee secures substitute premises approved by franchisor and has furnished stocked and equipped such premises to bring the franchised facility at its substituted premises into full compliance with the then current specifications and standards before the expiration date of this agreement hj fa. franchisee has given notice of renewal to franchisor as provided hereinafter. franchisee has satisfied all monetary obligations owed by franchisee to franchisor and has timely met these obligations throughout the term of this agreement. upon renewal. franchisee has executed franchisor then cun entomology form of the franchise agreement with appropriate modifications to reflect the fact that the franchise agreement relates to the grant of a renewal franchise which franchise agreement shall supersede in all respects this agreement and the terms of which may differ from the terms of this agreement including without limitation a different percentage royalty fee advertising contribution and a different territory provided however. franchisee shall not be required to pay the then current initial franchise fee but shall pay a renewal fee in the amount of ten percent of the then current initial franchise fee or two thousand dollars. whichever is greater. franchisee has complied with franchisor then cun entomology qualification and training requirements and. franchisee has executed a general release in a form prescribed by franchisor and under seal of any and all claims against franchisor and its respective officers directors agents shareholders and employees in their corporate and individual capacities. franchisee notice of renewal. if franchisee desires to renew this franchise before the expiration of this agreement franchisee shall give franchisor written notice of its desire to renew at least six months but not more than twelve months prior to the expiration of the initial term of this agreement. within sixty days after its receipt of such timely notice. franchisor shall furnish franchisee with written notice of i reasons which could cause franchisor not to grant a renewal to franchisee including but not limited to any deficiencies which require correction and a schedule for correction thereof by franchisee and ii franchisor then current requirements relating to the image appearance decoration furnishing equipping and stocking of happy joe restaurants and a schedule for effecting upgrading or modifications in order to bring the franchised facility in compliance therewith as a condition of renewal. renewal of the franchise shall be conditioned upon franchisee compliance with such requirements and continued corner ipliance with all the terms and conditions of this agreement up to the date of termination of the initial term. franchisor notice of renewal. franchisor shall give franchisee written notice of its election not to renew the franchise at least three months prior to the expiration of the initial term of this agreement. iii. restaurant location. alternative locations. franchisee shall operate the franchised facility only at the premises hj fa. specified in paragraph. hereof. if the fease for the premises expires or terminates without fault of franchisee or if the premises is destroyed condemned or othenvise rendered unusable or as otherwise may be agreed upon in writing by franchisor and franchisee franchisor shall grant permission for relocation of the franchised facility at a location and site acceptable to franchisor. approval of the new site may be subject to a change in the exclusive territory granted to franchisee. any such relocation shall be at franchisee sole expense and franchisor shall charge franchisee a fee of two thousand dollars. for its services in connection with any such relocation of the franchised facility relocation fee. franchisee responsibilities and franchisor approval. franchisee shall be responsible for purchasing or teasing a suitable site for the franchised facility. prior to the acquisition by lease or purchase of any site for the premises franchisee shall submit a description of the proposed site to franchisor together with a letter of intent or other evidence satisfactory to franchisor which confirms franchisee favorable prospects for obtaining the proposed site. franchisor shall provide franchisee written notice of approval or disapproval of the proposed site within thirty business days after receiving franchisee written proposal. lease terms. after receiving franchisor written approval of the location of the franchised facility as provided in paragraph iii. hereof. franchisee shall submit a copy of the proposed lease or purchase contract to franchisor along with a written request for approval. franchisor approval of the lease or purchase agreement shall be conditioned upon i collateral assignment of the lease to franchisor by franchisee with the lessor consent by execution of the collateral assignment of lease and consent to assignment attached hereto as exhibit and ii inclusion in the lease of terms acceptable to franchisor and at franchisor option the lease shall contain such provisions including but not limited to. provision reserving to franchisor the right at franchisor election to receive an assignment of the leasehold interest upon termination or expiration of the franchise grant. provision which expressly requires the lessor to provide franchisor with all sales and other information lessor may have related to the operation of the franchised facility as franchisor may request. provision which requires the lessor concurrently to provide franchisor with a copy of any written notice of deficiency under the lease sent to franchisee and which grants to franchisor in its sole discretion the right but not obligation to cure any deficiency under the lease within fifteen business days after the expiration of the period in which franchisee had to cure any such default should franchisee fail to do so. provision which evidences the right of franchisee to display the marks in accordance with the specifications required by the manual subject only to the provisions of applicable law hj fa. provision that the premises be used for the operation of a franchised facility and. provision which expressly states that any default curable or non curable under the lease shall constitute a like default under this agreement. upon receipt of franchisor approval of the lease. franchisee shall execute the lease or binding agreement to purchase if the site is to be purchased. franchisee shall deliver to franchisor a copy of the final executed lease within three business days after its execution and a copy of any amendment renewals extensions or new leases executed by franchisee for the location within a reasonable time after their execution. franchisor assistance. if the location is not designated above. franchisor shall use reasonable efforts to help analyze franchisee market area to help determine site feasibility and to assist in the designation of the location which must be approved by franchisor provided however that franchisor shall not conduct site selection activities on franchisee behalf. while franchisor shall utilize its experience and expertise in a designation of location nothing contained herein shall be interpreted as a guarantee of success for said location nor shall any site recommendation or approval made by franchisor be deemed a representation that any particular site is available for use as a happy joe restaurant. it shall be the sole responsibility of franchisee to undertake site selection activities and othena ise secure the premises. termination. in the event no acceptable site is found and approved by the parties within ninety days from the date of this agreement then and in that event upon written application from either party this contract shall be terminated and deposits received by franchisor shall be returned to franchisee except as stated below. in the event franchisor has within the aforesaid time submitted in writing to franchisee two or more sites which are acceptable to franchisor and franchisee has refused to accept same then upon termination franchisee shall be liable to franchisor in the amount of fifty percent of the initial franchise fee due hereunder for the expenses incurred by franchisor as of such date by providing site evaluation and selection activities. if franchisee has paid fees in excess of the amount franchisee is liable to franchisor franchisor shall return the excess amount to franchisee. upon return of said amount franchisor shall be fully and forever released from any claims or causes of action franchisee may have pursuant to this agreement and franchisee shall have no further right title or interest in the marks or system and any such rights shall automatically revert to franchisor. after site approval. franchisee shall promptly after obtaining possession of the site for the franchised facility i hire such architects contractors store designers and or decorators as necessary for the development of the site ii cause to be prepared and submit for approval by franchisor a site survey and any modifications to franchisor basic architectural plans and specifications not for construction for the development of a happy joe restaurant including requirements for dimensions exterior design materials interior design and layout equipment fixtures furniture signs and decorating at the site leased or hj fa. purchased therefor provided that franchisee may modify franchisor basic plans and specifications only to the extent required to comply with all applicable ordinances building codes and permit requirements and with prior notification to and approval by franchisor iii obtain all required zoning changes building utility health beer wine sanitation and sign permits and licenses and any other required permits and licenses iv purchase or lease equipment fixtures furniture and signs as provided herein complete the construction and or remodeling of the premises the installation of the equipment fixtures furniture and signs the decorating of the franchised facility in full and strict compliance with plans and specifications therefor approved by franchisor virgin islands comply with all applicable ordinances building codes and permit requirements vii obtain all customary contractors sworn statements and partial and final waivers of lien for construction remodeling decorating and installation services and viii otherwise complete development of and have the franchised facility ready to open and commence the conduct of its business in accordance with paragraph xii. hereof. all costs and expenses connected to this paragraph iii. shall be borne by franchisee. upon completion of the development and the opening of the franchised facility franchisee shall submit to franchisor a report in a form specified by franchisor on the cost of development of the franchised facility. remodeling. franchisee shall be required to periodically make reasonable capital expenditures to remodel modernize and redecorate the premises so that the franchised facility shall reflect the then current image intended to be portrayed by a happy joe restaurant all remodeling modernization or redecoration of the premises must be done in accordance with the standards and specifications as prescribed by franchisor from time to time and with the prior written approval of franchisor. all replacements must conform to franchisor then current quality standards and specifications and must be approved by franchisor in writing. franchisee shall not be required to remodel modernize and redecorate the franchised facility more than once every five years requiring expenditures in excess of your initial cost for leasehold improvements however maintenance of the premises and modifying upgrading or replacing equipment may exceed this amount and maintenance costs and equipment costs may not be credited to remodeling modernization or redecoration expenditures. upon completion of any remodeling modernization or redecoration of the premises franchisee shall submit to franchisor a report in a form specified by franchisor on the cost of the remodeling modernization or redecoration. training and assistance. initial training. prior to franchisee commencement of operations franchisor shall make an initial training program available to franchisee or to one of franchisee designates. the initial training program shall be approximately six weeks in duration. franchisee is required to attend and successfully complete such program. franchisee full time manager if any must attend and satisfactorily complete a four week training course. the initial training program shall be conducted at franchisor headquarters a happy joe restaurant or at such other place as franchisor shall designate. said training program shall include classroom training aod. on the job training at a happy joe restaurant and may also include supplemontal or on line training. the training program shall cover material aspects of the operation of a happy joe restaurant including financial controls general bookkeeping procedures food preparation. hj fa. service and operational techniques familiarization with recipes and cooking procedures marketing and advertising techniques sanitation and maintenance procedures deployment of labor maintenance of quality standards and an understanding of the manual. all expenses incurred by franchisee and its employees in attending such program including without limitation travel costs room and board expenses and employees salaries shall be the sole responsibility of franchisee. initial assistance. for approximately seven days immediately prior to and during commencement of operations of the franchised facility franchisor shall furnish to franchisee at franchisee premises and at franchisee expense including but not limited to franchisor representative salary one of franchisor representatives for the purpose of facilitating the opening of franchisee franchised facility. franchisee is required to successfully complete this phase of the initial training program as well. during this period such representative shall also assist franchisee in establishing and standardizing procedures and techniques essential to the operation of a happy joe restaurant and shall assist in training personnel. should franchisee request additional assistance from franchisor in order to facilitate the opening of the franchised facilify and should franchisor in its discretion deem it necessary feasible and appropriate to comply with the request. franchisee shall reimburse franchisor for the expense of franchisor providing such additional assistance which may include franchisor then current service fee as set forth in the manual which may be amended from time to time. termination. if franchisor determines in its sole discretion that franchisee is unable to satisfactorily complete either phase of training program franchisor shall have the right to i require franchisee to attend such additional training so as to demonstrate its ability to operate the franchised facility to franchisor satisfaction or ii terminate this agreement in the manner herein provided tf this agreement is terminated pursuant to this paragraph iv. franchisee shall be liable to franchisor for the expenses incurred by franchisor as of such date for providing training to franchisee and other expenses incurred by franchisor not to exceed eighty percent of the initial franchise fee due hereunder. if franchisee has paid franchise fees in excess of the amount franchisee is liable to franchisor franchisor shall return to franchisee the franchise fees paid by franchisee to franchisor minus the expenses incurred by franchisor as of such date for providing training to franchisee and other expenses incurred by franchisor. upon return of said amount. franchisor shall be fully and forever released from any claims or causes of action franchisee may have pursuant to this agreement and franchisee shall have no further right title or interest in the marks and system and any such rights shall automatically revert to franchisor. continuing education. franchisor from time to time may provide and if it does may require that previously trained and experienced franchisees and their managers and or employees attend and successfully complete refresher training programs or seminars to be conducted at such location as may be designated by franchisor. franchisee shall be responsible for paying expenses incurred by franchisee and franchisee managers and employees in attending the required refresher training programs or seminars including travel room and board and employees salaries. however that attendance shall not be required at more than three such programs in any calendar year and shall not collectively exceed six business hj fa. days in duration during any calendar year. throughout the franchise term franchisee must maintain access to franchisor on line training system and pay the quarterly fee assessed by franchisor and require employees to complete training modules in compliance with franchisor training standards. annual meeting. franchisee shall each year during the term of this agreement attend the franchisor annual meeting or conference of franchisees if franchisor holds such meeting or conference. however this provision shall not obligate franchisor to hold a meeting or conference of franchisees each year. the location of the meeting shall be designated by franchisor. franchisor may charge a fee for franchisee and any of franchisee employees to attend the annual meeting or conference. franchisee shall be responsible for paying all expenses incurred by franchisee and franchisee employees in attending the annual meeting including travel room and board and employees salaries. managers. if franchisee designates new or additional managers after the initial training program. franchisor shall provide training to such managers at the then current published rates. any and all designated managers shall be required to successfully complete the training program provided at franchisor headquarters or such other location designated by franchisor and or on line. franchisee shall bear all costs incurred by franchisee employees in attending such training program. access to on line training. throughout the term of the franchise. franchisee must have equipment and internet service necessary in order to access company on line training system for initial and ongoing training for franchisee and franchisee managers and empfovees. proprietary marks. franchisee acknowledges that franchisor is the owner of all right title and interest together with all the goodwill of the marks. franchisee further acknowledges that franchisee right to use the marks is derived solely from this agreement and is limited to the conduct of business by franchisee pursuant to and in compliance with this agreement and all applicable standards specifications and operating procedures prescribed by franchisor from time to time during the term of the franchise. any unauthorized use of the marks by franchisee is a breach of this agreement and an infringement of the rights of franchisor in and to the marks. franchisee acknowledges that all usage of the marks by franchisee and any goodwill established by franchisee use of the marks shall inure to the exclusive benefit of franchisor and that this agreement does not confer any goodwill or other interests in the marks upon franchisee. franchisee shall not at any time during the term of this agreement or after its termination or expiration contest the validity or ownership of any of the marks or assist any other person in contesting the validity or ownership of the marks. all provisions of this agreement applicable to the marks apply to any and all additional trademarks service marks and commercial symbols authorized for use by and licensed to franchisee by franchisor after the date of this agreement. franchisee shall not use any mark or portion of any mark as part of a corporate or trade hj fa. name or with any prefix suffix or other modifying words terms designs or symbols or in any modified form. franchisee shall not for franchisee own account register any mark or portion of any mark on the internet or any other computer on line service. franchisee shall not use any mark in connection with the sale of any unauthorized product or service or in any other manner not expressly authorized in writing by franchisor. franchisee shall give such notices of trademark and service mark registrations as franchisor specifies and obtain such fictitious or assumed name registrations as may be required under applicable law. franchisee shall promptly notify franchisor of any claim demand or cause of action based upon or arising from any attempt by any other person firm or corporation to use the marks or any colorable imitation thereof. franchisee shall also notify franchisor of any action claim or demand against franchisee relating to the marks within ten days after franchisee receives notice of said action claim or demand. upon receipt of timely notice of an action claim or demand against franchisee relating to the marks franchisor shall have the sole right but not the duty to defend any such action. franchisor shall have the exclusive right to contest or bring action against any third party regarding the third party use of any of the marks and shall exercise such right in their sole discretion tennessee any defense or prosecution of any litigation relating to the marks or components of the system undertaken by franchisor franchisee shall cooperate with franchisor and execute any and all documents and take all actions as may be desirable or necessary in the opinion of their counsel to carry out such defense or prosecution. both parties shall make every effort consistent with the foregoing to protect maintain and promote the marks as identifying the system and only the system. franchisor makes no representation or warranty express or implied as to the use exclusive ownership validity or enforceability of the marks. if it becomes advisable at any time in franchisor sole discretion for franchisor to modify or discontinue use of any mark and or use one or more additional or substitute trade names trademarks service marks or other commercial symbols. franchisee shall comply with franchisor directions within a reasonable time after notice to franchisee by franchisor. franchisor shall have no liability or obligation whatsoever with respect to franchisee modification or discontinuance of any mark. in order to presen the validity and integrity of the marks and copyrighted material licensed herein and to ensure that franchisee is properly employing the same in the operation of its franchised facility franchisor or its agents shall have the right of entry and inspection of franchisee premises and operating procedures at all reasonable times. franchisor or its agents shall have the right to observe the manner in which franchisee is rendering its happy joe services and conducting its operations to confer with franchisee employees and customers and to select menu items the proprietary products ingredients food and non food products beverages and other items products and supplies for test of content and evaluation purposes to make certain that the menu items the proprietary products ingredients food and non food products beverages and other items products materials and supplies are satisfactory and meet the quality control provisions and performance standards established by franchisor. in the event franchisee premises and or business operations are rated unacceptable by franchisor or a qualified third party agent designated by franchisor according to published standards for happy joe restaurants based hj fa. on such inspection franchisee shall reimburse franchisor for any and all costs and expenses connected with the inspection including without limitation reasonable compensation for the third party designated agent. thereafter franchisor may conduct additional inspections every thirty days itself or through a designated third party agent and franchisee shall reimburse franchisor for any and all costs and expenses connected with any and all inspections that results in an unacceptable rating for franchisee premises or business operations. the foregoing remedies shall be in addition to any other remedies franchisor may have for franchisee failure to comply with the terms of this agreement. virgin islands confidential operations manual. franchisor shall loan to franchisee during the term of the franchise one copy of the manual containing reasonable mandatory and suggested specifications standards operating procedures and rules prescribed from time to time by franchisor for happy joe restaurants and information relative to other obligations of franchisee hereunder. franchisor shall have the right to add to and otherwise modify the manual from time to time to reflect changes in the specifications standards operating procedures and rules prescribed by franchisor for happy joe restaurants provided that no such addition or modification shall alter franchisee fundamental status and rights under this agreement. the manual shall at all times remain the sole property of franchisor and shall promptly be returned upon the expiration or other termination of this agreement franchisee shall not copy disclose or use the manual in any manner not authorized by franchisor. the manual contains proprietary information of franchisor and shall be kept confidential by franchisee both during the term of the franchise and subsequent to the expiration and or termination of the franchise. franchisee shall at all times ensure that its copy of the manual be available at the premises in a current and up to date manner. at all times that the manual is not in use by authorized personnel. franchisee shall maintain the manual in a locked receptacle at the premises and shafi only grant authorized personnel as defined in the manual access to the key or lock combination of such receptacle. in the event of any dispute as to the contents of the manual the terms of the master copy of the manual maintained by franchisor at franchisor home office shall be controlling. vii. confidential information. franchisee acknowledges that its entire knowledge of the operation of a happy joe restaurant including without limitation the method of preparation of menu items proprietary products and other food products and other specifications product formulae standards and operating procedures of a happy joe restaurant is derived from information disclosed to franchisee by franchisor and that such information is proprietary confidential and the trade secret of franchisor. in addition any improvements developed by franchisee pursuant to franchisee operation of the franchised facility shall constitute proprietary information of franchisor. trade secrets refer to the whole or any portion of know how hj fa. knowledge methods recipes formulae specifications processes procedures and or improvements regarding the happy joe restaurant and the system that is valuable and secret in the sense that it is not generally known to competitors of franchisor. franchisee shall maintain the absolute confidentiality of all such information during and after the term of the franchise and that franchisee shall not use any such information in any other business or in any manner not specifically authorized or approved in writing by franchisor. franchisee shall divulge such confidential information only to the extent and only to such of its employees as must have access to it in order to operate the franchised facility. any and all information knowledge and know how including without limitation drawings materials equipment techniques restaurant systems product fonnulae recipes and other data which franchisor designates as confidential shall be deemed confidential for purposes of this agreement except information which franchisee can demonstrate lawfully came to its attention prior to disclosure thereof by franchisor or which at the time of disclosure by franchisor to franchisee had lav rfully become a part of the public domain through publication or communication by others or which after disclosure to franchisee by franchisor lawfully becomes a part of the public domain through publication or communication by others. due to the special and unique nature of the confidential information marks and manual of franchisor franchisee hereby acknowledges that franchisor shall be entitled to immediate equitable remedies including but not limited to restraining orders and injunctive relief in order to safeguard such proprietary confidential unique and special information of franchisor and that money damages alone would be an insufficient remedy with which to compensate franchisor for any breach of the terms of paragraphs. virgin islands and vii. of this agreement. all owners directors shareholders partners and employees of franchisee having access to the confidential and proprietary information of franchisor shall be required to execute non disclosure agreements in the form acceptable to franchisor. franchisor may authorize franchisee to use certain copyrighted or copyrightable works copyrighted works. the copyrighted works are the valuable property of franchisor or franchisor parent subsidiary or affiliate. franchisee rights to use the copyrighted works are granted to franchisee solely on the condition that franchisee complies with the terms of this paragraph vii. franchisee acknowledges and agrees that franchisor owns or is the licensee of the owner of the copyrighted worie inserted in rider and shall become a part hereof as if originally incorporated therein. franchisee shall not relocate its satellite without the prior written approval of franchisor. franchisee shall not be granted any exclusive rights in connection with the satellite location. the exclusive territory provisions of paragraph. of the franchise agreement shall not apply to the satellite location. in consideration of the right granted herein to establish a satellite location. franchisee shall pay to franchisor upon the execution of this satellite location addendum to franchise agreement this addendum a fee in the amount of tenfifteen thousand dollars. the satellite and its operation will be subject to all of the provisions contained in the franchise agreement and all provisions relating to the franchised facility shall apply to the satellite except as modified or supplemented by the terms of this addendum. franchisee shall report on gross sales and pay the royalty fee and all advertising contributions as provided for in the franchise agreement on the total hj satelliteadd. g gross sales denved from the franchised facility and the satellite location. the menu for the satellite shall be as specified in rider to this exhibit based on the location of the satellite. franchisee shall not be entitled to offer all of the services which are offered by a happy joe full size restaurant or delivery only facility at the satellite and specifically is prohibited from providing delivery service to customers. franchisee right and obligation to operate the satellite shall commence on the date of this agreement and shall expire at the eariier of i the date of expiration of the initial term of the franchise agreement of ii the expiration date of the lease for the premises of the satellite. if a lease for the location of the satellite has not been executed prior to the date of this agreement upon the execution of the lease for the satellite franchisee and franchisor shall insert the date of the expiration of the lease in rider attached hereto. paragraph ii. and. of the franchise agreement on renewal term and requirements shall be amended by the addition of the following franchisee shall have the right to renew this addendum to continue to have the right to operate the satellite in conjunction with the renewal of the franchise agreement however. franchisee shall not be obligated to renew this addendum along with the renewal of the franchise agreement. franchisee shall state in its notice of renewal to franchisor whether it intends to renew this addendum. franchisee shall have no right to renew this addendum and to continue to operate the satellite beyond the initial term unless the franchise agreement for the franchised facility is renewed. it shall be the sole responsibility of franchisee to undertake site selection activities and othen vise secure the premises for the satellite subject to the approval of franchisor. no approval by franchisor of a site submitted by franchisee shall be interpreted as a guarantee of success at said location. paragraph iii. of the franchise agreement on restaurant location shall also apply to the premises of the satellite and franchisee shall comply with all of the applicable requirements of paragraph im. prior to the opening of the satellite. prior to franchisee commencement of the operations of the satellite franchisor shall make a satellite training program available to franchisee or the designated full time manager of the satellite. the training program shall be approximately three weeks in duration. franchisee or franchisee full time manager is required to attend and successfully complete such program. the satellite training program shall be conducted at franchisor headquarters or at such other place as franchisor shall designate and shall also include three days of on site training at the location of the satellite. all expenses incurred by franchisee or its manager in attending such program including without limitation travel costs room and board expenses and employees salaries shall be the sole responsibility of franchisee. franchisee shall spend one thousand dollars. on grand opening advertising within the first thirty days of operation of the satellite. grand opening advertising for the satellite will be conducted in accordance with franchisor guidelines. hj satelliteadd. franchisee shall maintain a listing for the satellite location in boldface type in the white pages of the local telephone directory and shall advertise continuously said location in the classified or yellow pages of the local telephone directory. franchisee shall maintain a yellow pages listing in boldface type under the listing restaurant pizza and such other listings of the size and type deemed appropriate by franchisor. franchisee shall commence operation of the satellite not later than one hundred twenty days after execution of this addendum or within thirty days of the opening of the facility in which the satellite will be operated if such facility is not open at the time of execution of this addendum whichever is later. franchisee may not sell alcoholic beverages from the satellite. however packaged alcoholic beverages may be sold at the premises within which the satellite is located as long as they are not sold by or through the satellite. franchisee shall not be prohibited from offering other food and beverage products on the premises in which the satellite is located from other than the satellite as long as franchisee does not offer and sell food and beverage products similar to those listed in rider. the requirements of paragraph xii. of the franchise agreement on imprinted products shall only apply to the following products used at the satellite location. the satellite shall at all times be under the direct on premises supervision of a trained and competent employee acting as full time manager of the satellite. manager of the satellite shall not be required to have some prearranged profit participation in the franchised facility or the satellite. paragraph xii. of the franchise agreement on coin operated machines shall not apply to the satellite. paragraph xii. of the franchise agreement on annual holiday party shall not apply to the satellite. prior to the opening of the satellite franchisee shall procure insurance coverage on the satellite as required by paragraph xiv. of the franchise agreement except that franchisee shall not be required to maintain business interruption and extra expense insurance for the satellite. in section xvii of the franchise agreement on rights and duties of parties upon expiration or termination xvii. on assignment of franchisee lease to franchisor shall not be applicable to the satellite location and xvii. on assignment of all telephone and facsimile numbers to franchisor shall only apply to the satellite for any lines dedicated solely to the satellite. any transfer pursuant to paragraph xviii. of the franchise agreement shall be a transfer of all franchise rights relating to the franchised facility and the satellite. franchisee shall have no hj satelliteadd. right to transfer the right to operate the satellite apart from the franchised facility. franchisee shall not have the right to sell happy joe proprietary products or other food products from outside the location of the franchised facility or satellite or in any manner other than the retail sale of products from the premises of the franchised facility or the satellite. franchisee hereby represents and warrants that by entering into this addendum franchisee is not in violation of any other franchise agreement or other contract to which franchisee is a party. this addendum is executed as of this day of attest happy joe franchising. incorporated by title attestavitness franchisee by title by title hj satelliteadd. rider to satellite location addendum menu items franchisor and franchisee agree that based on the market size and conditions in the area where the happy joe satellite shall be located the menu of the satellite shall be limited to the following date happy joe franchising incorporated franchisee by by title title rider to satellite location addendum location of satellite and lease expiration date the parties acknowledge the following based on the lease for the site of the satellite which has been executed by franchisee the location of the satellite shall be the expiration date of the lease for the satellite is date happy joe franchising incorporated franchisee by by title title happy joe franchising incorporated list of state agents for service of process and state administrators exhibit to the franchise disclosure document hj fdd list of state administrators and agents for service of process and registration dates illinois lisa madigan illinois attorney general south second street springfield illinois for service of process same indiana. wayne davischris navlor securities commissioner indiana securities division. washington street room indianapolis in for service of process secretary of state state house indianapolis in minnesota glenn wilson commissioner of commerce minnesota department of commerce place east suite street paul minnesota for service of process minnesota commissioner of commerce place east suite street paul minnesota north dakota north dakota securities department east boulevard avenue state capitol floor department bismarck north dakota for service of process north dakota securities commissioner east boulevard avenue state capitol floor department bismarck. north dakota hj fdd south dakota gail sheppick director division of securities east capitol avenue pierre south dakota for service of process same wisconsin franchise administrator wisconsin securities commissioner. box madison wl madison wl for service of process wisconsin commissioner of securities. washington avenue floor madison wl madison wl agent for service of process in non registration states michael roeder utica ridge road davenport louisiana hj fdd happy joe franchising incorporated table of contents of the manual exhibit to the franchise disclosure document hj fdd policies and procedures manual pol toc effecdte date januiy section company pages.oo welcome lol policies and procedures manual line company history. inimigration law compliance. store locations. support staff directory. company philosophy section benefits pages. team member benefit eligibility. workers compensation. unemployment insurance. medical and dental insurance earned time official uniforms. short term absences. bereavement leave. extended leaves of absence. educational assistance program. team member purchasing discount. jury or witness duty. militar leave. office unifont! in parlor. family medical leave act fmla section employment policies pages. equal employment opportunity. sexual harassment. personnel records. emplovtoent categories. child labor. performance evatuations. promotions and transfers. guest service and complaints. progressive counseling. employment separation. employment of relatives. team member referrals. reference requests policies and procedures manual pol toc fabufldf effective date januar revised march sectjon employment policies cont. conflicts of interest. outside employment. head coach responsibilities. assistant coach responsibilities. emplovmenl verification. flowers. termination checklist. team member files. on track review support center section attendance and pay pages. pay periods taychecks. payroll deductions. other compensation. scheduling of work hours. overtime. unscheduled store closing. recording hours worked. meat and rest breaks. absenteeism and tardiness. use of personal car. cellular telephones. pay advances. peak periods. personal cell phone use section company regulations pages. ethics. confidentiality. persona appearance. solicitation rules. smoking and chewing tobacco. alcohol and drugs. visitors and restricted access. telephone use. parking. personal property. additional company rules of conduct policies and procedures manual pol toc effective date january piviss march o o section company regulations con. internet. video games for redemption and entertainment. music. expenditures approval process. discount procedures. internet coupons. vendor noncompliance of product specifications section and security pages. bare hand contact. limited delix ery service areas. operation of company owned vehicles section sales and guest service pages. redemption of intracornpany percs promotions fund raisers and gift certificates. delivery areas. extra cheese. taco packets. non smoking restaurants. birthday parties reserved. volume discounts. fund raising and charity discounts. birthday parties walk indiana inclement weather. discount procedures section job responsibilities pages. team member cash handling policy. coach and inventor control. cash shortage and overages. financial accountability. redemption game vleter cash handling policies and procedures manual pol toc effecth baie january revtsed march ch acknowledgement of understanding section pro. seasoning hard coat pans section page pro. ost meetings section oaaes pro. pennsylvania tense lines pro. accounts payable pro. house charge sales pro. daily sales reports pro. intra company rood transfers pro. bank deposits pro. cash register handling procedure pro. cash drawer pro. delivery wallets pro. io pizza passes pro. gift promotions pro. game machine income pro. voids pro. discounts and deductions pro. coupons pro. credit card sales pro. daily skin count pro. gift certificates pro. inventory control pro. petty cash pro. smorgasbord pro. change fund pro. waste control pro. complaints pro. signing contracts pro. cash shonages overages policies and procedures manual pol toc ble oif efrbctiv date january vrsocw exhibits pages exhibit. store locations exhibit medical and dental insurance exhibit earned time exhibit uniform agreement exhibit short term absences exhibit team member discounts exjiibit guest service and food safety exhibit assistant coach job responsibility checklist exhibit paychecks and wage payment guidelines exhibit paycheck permission slip exhibit other compensation exhibit time off request form exhibit reimbursement for the use of personal car exhibit confidentialit statement exhibit mvr authorization a pages local store marketing materials table of contents section section secdon section section section secdon section section section section section section section office supplies internal materials school programs fundraising ideas contests seasonal promotions hiring materials deliveries business to business cross promotional placemats box toppers ad slicks stores general marketing notes ideas order forms pages pages pages pages pages pages pages pages pages pages pages pages page paees total pages pages table of contents introduction part accounting structxire presentation pages section understanding the happy joe accounting system section financial statement presentation part ii account descriptions a revised january dakota south dakota food and manual food and beverage.manual table of conthents section dough procedures section pizza recipes section pizza make section appetizer section ice cream section pasta section sandwiches section beverage section salad section smorgasbord items shaded in gray are required be on each rrenu. hems urde.fned wit.are reoces. qa dough dough procedures section table of contents happy joe dough room page dough room supplies page dough room products page original dougli page sheeting original pizza.kins rondo dough sheeter page cutting original pizza skins rondo dough sneeter page sheeting original pizza skins anets dough sheeter page adding scraps to the original dough anets dough sheeter page cutting original pizza skins anets dough sheeter page mixing pan pizza dough page dough mixing stages page rounding sheeting pan dough page proofing pan pizza page multi grain dough pages troubleshooting pages procedures for using the drayton dough products pages items shaced in gray are requii to old english cn each rnenu. hems undertinecf with. are recioes. pizza recipes section table of contents happy joe sauces meats and cheeses page products page supplies page pizza sauce recipes original sauce page taco pizza sauce using canned retried beans page taco pizza sauce using dried refried bean mix page pan pizza sauce page pre made sauces page guidelines for handling raw beef or pork items page simple steps to using happy joe cheese page happy joe cheese page preparing block cheese page preparing other cheeses page product holding times pages items shaded in gray are required to be on each menu. items underlined with are recipes. centimeter pizza make section table of contents hapdy joe pizza iv ake sedon happy joe pizza codes counter or near phone codes for pizza topoings pizza make station the basic pizza happy joe pizza portions in oijnces mulii lngredient chart multi chart riappy jce specialty pizza portio.ns ounces cubic chart happy joe party cut rcjnd sl ce pizza pizza by the siice calzones step visual guide tc making calzones joe chicago style pizza gourmei style pizzas happy joe mega makschart happy joe heart shaped pizza baking happy joe original pizza baking happy joe real pan pizza happy joe omelet pizza items shaded in gray are reou. edward to be on each menu. ems underlined with are recpes.apdiy afte. baking i appetizer section table of contents htroducticn page appetizers fryer page pizza stix anci cheese stix. page nacho basket page garlic toast aeese toast page appetizer recipes. pages fieslix preparation guide.pages masculine chicken gravers.page super nachos chile page quesadillas pages i items shaced in gray are required to be cn each menu. items underlined with are redoes. of hand dipped ice old fashioned hafid dipped ice cream page supplies page products ice creat page toppings page other toppings page dipping ice cream dishers page dipping instructions page temperatures page cones page whipped cream page. rim instructions page happy joe sundae recipes pages sodas page shakespeare malts page floats page special shakespeare spoonbreakers page parfait page candy page soft serve ice cream sundaes page dip cones page cones page waffle cones and waffle cone sundaes page shakespeare and malts page banana sp! ts page novelties ice cream bar page ice cream sandwich page nove. ies specialty sundaes carame fudge pecan sundae page salted nut roil page snap roo page novelties special sundaes con peanut bu tter cup sundae page creamy hot fudge banana page novelties special shakespeare malts con spoonbreaker large page ems shaded iri gray are required to be on each menu. items underlined with are record pes. ice table of contents cont ice topping shelf life handling recommenced requi ements for stcing specific foods ice ci eam and frozen yogurt.page ice cream shelf life old fashioned hand dipped ice cream page soft serve ice cream page ice cream toppings holding times and temperatures hotfudge page chocolate syrup page ice cream toppings holding times and temperatures non chocolate toppings strawberry topping page pineapple topping page ice cream toppings holding times and eitpe. atjres non chccolate toppings con marshmallow topping page iteitis snadec in gray a required old english on eacn rr.errj. ile wales new south wales unde irec are recipes. of spaghetti pasta page product page supplies page happy joe italian sauce page cooking preparations for happy joe meatballs page how to cook spaghetti pasta noodles page bread page happy joe pastalicious page preparations page regular size pasta page seafood pasta page spaghetti page lasagna page happy joe alfredo oven baked spaghetti page happy joe original oven baked spaghetti page basic baked spaghetti page happy joe alfiedo oven baked lasgheti page happy joe original oven baked lasghetti page baked lasghetti visuals page items stiaded in gray are requfed to be on eacti menu.ast ets jids inea wisconsin ars. ecioes. sandwiches section table of contents introduction page supplies page product page recommended sandwich procedures pages sandwich recipes pages gal and. er sandwicr.es ages items shaded in gray are requrec to be on each nenu. ijerns underlined with are recipes. lok beverage section table of commission em introduction page product supplies page procedures page coffee recommendations page coffee preparation page cleaning the coffee machine page hot tea cocoa page iced tea page cold milk page cleaning and maintenance pages soft drink beverage page beer page items shaded gray are required be cn each meru. items underlined with are recipes. bever.age section salad section table of contents introduction page supplies page product page set up procedures page closing procedures page recommendations page salad recipes pages soup page.errs shadec gray a reou red old english on sacn nenu. items underlined with. are recipes. on smorgasbord section table of contents introduction page products page equipment pages set up requirements pages recommendations page menu advertising page recipes pages smorgasbord product request form page smorgasbord cneck list page itecns shadea gray are req i ec to old english on each menu. ui items untie li. south dakota wisconsin are recices. coach game book table of contents chapter pages. introduction to management coaching. philosophy of management to definition of management the success triansle definition of a team member the ideal restaurant team member basic knowledge to operations versus.ales weil run restaurant sales vs. operations quiz to service culture tug of war between sales and operations systems that prevent selhng behaviors vs. responsibilities to verbal communicadon to show me cutdng the strings to rewarding poor performance answer person to quesdon answer log the clean up to managing your restaurant the four hats to the coach responsibility checklist to chapter pages. sales goals the goal oriented store sales performance minimums to setting goals the fair share doctrine to the weekjv minimums planner to settmg fair goals to individual quarterly minimums summary to the store quarterly minimums summary to. sales statistics quantity vs. qualit daily performance summary to the weekly summarv to targeting and analyzing statistics to shift performance summarv sheets to implementing statistics to what statistics to track performance guidelines posting statistics to. coaching on statistics introduction to steps to developing a great restaurant career avoiding excuses causes of deficient statistics to gi ng feedback on statistics weekly meetings on statistics to coaching logs team member profdes to weekly meetings exercises to chapter pages. guest service scottish sales standards selling behaviors to encourage business to modvadon to behaviors vs. attitudes developing a team why sales training may not be effective non negodable standards to introducing standards to. coaching behaviors introduction giving effecdve feedback to consequences to why do sales trammg io to coaching behaviors coaching strategies to. progressive discipline goals and steps of progressive discipline to conducnng counseling sessions counseling session exercises to correcdve acdon documentadon to. hiring introducdon to wridng help wanted ads to creadve recruiting to the first interview to the second interview five great questions setting the standards to the selection process to reference check sheet chapter pages. training new team members introduction minimum levels of training principles of training to team member job responsibility checklist to. day trainins schedule to total pases team member handbook toc table of contents message from happy joe page welcome team members glossar of terms happy joe vision statement happy joe core values you and your coach super isor vacacions health insurance and retirement plans leaves of absence military leave of absence family and medicaj leave of absence policy accommodation requests workers compensation insurance workers compensation leaves team member purchasing discount equal employment opportunitn applications and previous employment histor employment relationship sexual harassment i general harassment team member classification outside employment team member handbook toc table of contents cont. page personnel records keys suspension termination on track performance evaluations guest complaints restaurant hours tardiness absenteeism wage and salary policy overtime pay payday meal and rest periods time cards and time records schedules emergency closings payroll deductions dakota south dakota standards of conduct progressive counseling uniforms alcoholic beverages personal belongings team member handbook toc table of contents cont. page personal mailafelephone calls smoking or chevving tobacco grooming standards solicitation rules. parking team member entrance jl royal duty bereavement theft package inspection power failure fire procedure robbery procedure safety emergency action plan bloodbome disease conu ol hazard communication program happy joe propem use of deliver vehicles guest tipping birthdays closins acknowledgement of understanding team member handbook toc table of contents cont. page local policies vacation exhibit health insurance and retirement plans exhibit family and medical leave of absence exhibit team member purchasing discount exhibit wage information exhibit cost ofreplacemeni ofuniform pieces exhibit payday exhibit meal and rest periods exhibit parking exhibit uniforms exhibit team member entrance exhibit support staff directory exhibit happy joe pizza satellite location table of contents pases section secdon section section section section section drayton dough instructions baking and holding procedures breakfast pizza recipe calzones make station area oven area cut station area total pages louisiana rosa. incorporated confidentl line operating manual for rudy tacos index topic general menu equipment cleanliness standards customer series ice displaying and semng food inventory business days and hours prices register procedure suggested check cashing policy accounting repons to franchisor ! taxes financing permits and licenses signs and insignia insurance personnel training staffing i personnel practices personnel policies scheduling information general information uniforms employee breaks reprimands happy joe franchising incorporated list of happy joe restaurants exhibit to the franchise disclosure document hj fdd a joe i i as of franchised location illinois store address aledo illinois route southeast street full size population open date owner doug vanderginst dave vanderginst chris winn coal valley illinois avenue full size population colona illinois street. bo delco population east dubuque illinois sinsinawa delco population doug vanderginst dave vanderginst jerome moreno mick mapes phil romer mark schmitt darryl schmitt dan boland rick anderson east moline illinois kennedy drive full size population mick mapes happy joe store listing as of galena illinois route full size fun center population opened burned reopened carl schoenhard joe whitty geneseo illinois oakwqod avenue full size population rich henning milan illinois street full size population dave vanderginst doug vanderginst moline illinois x street delco population richard henning rich henning morrison illinois main street full size population kevin and lynn kenady rock falls illinois avenue rock falls illinois delco population tom piehl rockford illinois mike cady. riverside boulevard full size fun center population rock island illinois street full size population happy joe store listing as of mick mapes iowa closed flood ames louisiana duff full size population henry kohler burlington louisiana moved from division to law rence drive full size fun center population will and debbie brinkley cascade louisiana highw ay east full size population john danneman cedar rapids louisiana lindale drive north-east full size fun center population happy joe store listing as of bill bark cedar rapids louisiana avenue south-west fuu size fun center population bill bark clinton louisiana street full size fun center population james mcgraw decoi ah louisiana water street full size population mary annual and manny madrigal dewitt louisiana street full size fun center population rick and jojo schroeder dubuque louisiana university drive delco population dubuque louisiana rich hara phil romer mark schmitt dan boland rick anderson rich hara phil romer mark century drive full size population dyersville iowa avenue southridge plaza. full size population eldrfdge louisiana lancer grille. leclaire road pull size union center population dakota south dakota owa city coralville iowa avenue suite delco population leclaire louisiana north cody road dakota south dakota full size pun center population wonticello iowa south main fujj size pun center population happy joe store listing as of schmitt dan boland rick anderson doug bahl scott bahl rob pick opened destroyed by tornado pood june opened john danneman richard henning rich henni john dannemaf happy joe store listing as of muscatine iowa grandview delco population doug ricklefs muscatine louisiana lake park boulevard full size fun center population closed due to fire reopened in march doug ricklefs ottumwa iowa church street full size fun center population monte derby tipton iowa cedar street full size population bart montgomery urbandak iowa douglas avenue delco open in cell fax relocated from street thomas gantz happy joe store listing as of minnesota crookston minnesota robert street full size fun center population joe whitty robert kresi odine smulan new ulm minnesota broadw ay full size fun center population lee sturm missouri street louis month watson road full size fun center population rick simmon north dakota bismark north dakota red carpet car wash street delco population dave wonnenberg fargo north dakota university full size fun center population mike and cheryl post john and rita post happy joe store listing as of fargo north dakota broadway delco population mike and cheryl post john and rita post grand forks north dakota washington full size fun center population todd halverson john and rita post mike and cheryl post minot north dakota avenue. minot north dakota cory denise pardon west fargo north dakota avenue. full size population mike and cheryl post john and rita post wisconsin green bay wl east mason street full size fun center population frank and teri hanold happy joe store listing as of lancaster wl highway alona lane full size fun center population roger bussan medford wisconsin casement court full size fun center population ! and mary will iams appleton wl. evergreen drive full size phone population frank. terri hanold onalaska wl oak avenue full size fun center population dave olson happy joe store listing as of corporate store listing illinois galesburg illinois henderson full size fun center population richard abel kewanee illinois tenny street full size population robert plum iowa bettendorf iowa spruce hills drive full size population davenport iowa rockingham road full size population adam berntgen jenny balluff davenport iowa locust street full size population dan thompson happy joe store listing as of davenport iowa so street full size fun center jungle bungle population jenny culp maquoketa iowa myatt drive full size population company store angle runge pella iowa broadway full size fun center population liz clarke north dakota dickinson north dakota street full size fun center population frank berry licensed restaurants anamosa louisiana closed ueto fire highways and population iowa will reopen in john danneman happy joe store listing as of walcott iowa checkered flag bar grille junction population mike whalen happy joe franchising incorporated list of certain former franchisees exhibit to the franchise disclosure document hj fdd list of certain former franchisees for period september through september og and october through december lee sturm continues to own another franchise new ulm. minnesota thomas gantz continues to own another franchise urbandale. iowa douq ricklefs continues to own another franchise muscatine. iowa douq and heather drake freeport. illinois hj fdd happy joe franchising incorporated installment note and security agreement exhibit to the franchise disclosure document hj fdd exhibit installment note date principal amount for value received the undersigned franchisee promises to pay to happy joe franchising incorporated the principal amount of dollars plus interest at a annua! rate of one percent over the prime rate of interest as announced by bank from the date hereof until paid in full. payment shall be made to happy joe franchising incorporated in twelve equal monthly installments beginning on the first day of the month following the opening of the undersigned franchised restaurant but in no event later than as required by section xii. of the franchise agreement entered into by the undersigned franchisee with a payment due and payable on the street day of each month thereafter and with the final balance including principal and interest due and payable no latter than. the balance may be paid in full or in part on any payment date without penalty. the monthly installments will be paid to happy joe franchising incorporated happy joe drive bettendorf iowa or at such other place as happy joe franchising incorporated may direct in writing. all payments will be applied first to accrued interest to the date of payment and then to principal. prepayment may be made in whole or in part at any time. this note shall be secured by a security agreement of even date covering all the assets of the franchised restaurant owned and operated by the undersigned franchisee. in the event of a default in payment of any of said monthly installments the entire unpaid balance of this installment note will become due and payable immediately without notice at the election of happy joe franchising incorporated in the event of such default interest at the rate of eighteen percent per annum or the maximum rate allowed by law whichever is higher will accrue on the entire unpaid balance on this installment note from the date of default until paid in full. the undersigned agrees to pay all costs of collection including without limitation all attorney fees and court costs incurred by happy joe franchising incorporated no delay or omission on the part of happy joe franchising incorporated in the exercise of its rights or remedies shail operate as a waiver thereof and no single or partial exercise by happy joe franchising incorporated of any right or remedy will preclude further exercise thereof or of any other right or remedy. happy joe franchising incorporated may at its discretion assign this installment note and the amounts due to a third party of happy joe franchising incorporated choice who may be immune under the law to any defenses to hj ex. ! payment you may have against happy joe franchising incorporated at any time before final payment is made. if this note is signed by more than one person or entity every obligation of the undersigned shall be joint and several. this note must be personally guaranteed by those persons listed on the personal guarantee attached to the franchise agreement entered into by the undersigned and happy joe franchising incorporated the undersigned and all guarantors of this installment note hereby waive demand presentment notice of dishonor diligence in collection and notice of protest and agree to all extensions and partial payments before or after maturity without prejudice to happy joe franchising incorporated dated witness franchisee individually witness franchisee individually attest secretary and or as an officer partner or member of by. signature title designate form of entity hj ex. personal guaranty the undersigned individuals represent and warrant that they are all of the owners of the franchisee executing the attached installment note. accordingly to induce happy joe franchising incorporated to accept the installment note in partial payment of a franchise fee each of the undersigned individuals hereby executes this personal guaranty and agrees to be jointly and severally bound by all the obligations hereof and each of the undersigned individually guarantees the performance by franchisee of all of franchisee obligations hereunder. hj ex. exhibit security agreement this security agreement dated. is by and between happy joe franchising incorporated happy joe drive bettendort iowa secured party and whose principal place of business is debtor. recitals. debtor has executed this date an installment note in the amount of dollars to secured party contemporaneously with this security agreement. in connection with the note secured party is taking from debtor a security interest in the happy joe franchised restaurant franchised restaurant which is owned by debtor and which is located at. accordingly debtor is giving secured party a security interest in the collateral described in this agreement. now therefore in consideration of the several and mutual covenants set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged the parties hereto agree as follows. the recitals set forth above shall be incorporated into this part of the agreement as though they were fully set forth herein. description of collateral the following property located at or relating to the franchised restaurant all equipment furniture fixtures vehicles inventory documents relating to inventory general intangibles accounts receivable contract rights chattel paper and instruments now owned or hereafter acquired by the debtor and all additions and accessions thereto and all renewals substitutions replacement products and proceeds of the foregoing and all other assets used or to be used in the operation of the franchised restaurant wherever now or hereafter located and any insurance covering such assets collateral. debtor hereby grants to secured party a security interest in the collateral described in paragraph above as security for the payment of i the installment note of even date herewith in said hj. amount payable to the order of secured party as therein specified together with interest thereon as provided in said installment note and any renewals or extensions thereof plus ail costs of collection legal expenses and attorney fees incurred by secured party upon the occurrence of a default under this agreement in collecting or enforcing payment of such indebtedness or in preserving protecting or realizing on the collateral herein ii any note or notes executed and delivered to secured party by debtor at any time before the entire indebtedness and all liabilities secured hereby shall be paid in full evidencing a refinancing of an unpaid balance of any of the installment note described above and iii any and all liabilities of debtor to secured party arising under this agreement. debtor agrees to execute uniform commercial code financing statements to enable secured party to perfect this security interest by filing pursuant to the uniform commercial code as adopted by the state in which the collateral is located. debtor warrants and covenants that the collateral is bought or used primarily for business use and that debtor business is the franchised restaurant and its pnmary place of business is located at the address of the debtor shown at the beginning of this agreement. the collateral will be kept at the address set forth indiana above. debtor will not remove the collateral from the said location without the prior written consent of secured party. debtor hereby warrants and covenants that a except for the security interest granted hereby debtor is the owner of the collateral free from any adverse lien security interest or encumbrance and debtor will defend the collateral against all claims and demands of all persons at any time claiming the same or any interest therein. no financing statement covering any of the collateral or any proceeds thereof is on file or will shortly be on file in any public office. the debtor shall immediately notify the secured party in writing of any change in name address identity or corporate structure from that shown in this agreement and shall also upon demand furnish to the secured party such further information and shall execute and deliver to secured party such financing statements and other documents in form satisfactory to secured party and shall do all such acts and things as secured party may at any time or from time to time reasonably request or as may be necessary or appropriate to establish and maintain a perfected security interest in the collateral as security for the obligations to secured party subject to no adverse lines or encumbrances and debtor will pay the cost of filing the same or filing or recording this agreement in all public offices wherever filing or recording is deemed by secured party to be necessary or desirable. carbon photographic or other reproduction of this agreement is sufficient as a financing statement. debtor will not sell or offer to sell assign pledge lease or otherwise transfer or encumber the collateral or any interest therein without the prior written consent of secured party. hj ex. debtor shall keep the collateral at all times insured against risks of loss or damage by fire including so called extended coverage theft and such other casualties as secured party may reasonably require including collision in the case of any motor vehicle in all such amounts under such forms of policies upon such terms for such periods and written by such companies or underwriters as secured party may approve losses in all cases to be payable to secured party and debtor as their interests may appear. all policies of insurance shall provide for at least ten days prior written notice of cancellation to secured party. debtor shall furnish secured party with certificates of such insurance or other evidence satisfactory to secured party as to compliance with the provisions of this paragraph. secured party may act as attorney for debtor in making adjusting settling claims under and canceling such insurance and endorsing debtor name on any drafts drawn by insurers of the collateral. debtor will keep the collateral free from any adverse lien security interest or encumbrance and in good order and repair shall not waste or destroy the collateral or any part thereof and shall not use the collateral in violation of any statute ordinance policy of insurance thereon. secured party may examine and inspect the collateral at any reasonable time or times wherever located. debtor will promptly pay when due all taxes and assessments upon the collateral or for its use or operation or upon this agreement or upon any note or notes evidencing debtor obligations to secured party. at its option secured party may discharge taxes liens or security interest or other encumbrances at any time levied or placed on the collateral may place and pay for insurance on the collateral upon failure of debtor after having been requested to do so to provide insurance satisfactory to the secured party and may pay for the maintenance repair and preservation of the collateral. to the extent permitted by applicable law debtor agrees to reimburse secured party on demand for any payment made or any expense incurred by secured party pursuant to the foregoing authorization. until default. debtor may have possession of the collateral and use it in any lawful manner not inconsistent with this agreement and not inconsistent with any policy of insurance thereon. debtor shall be in default under this agreement upon the occurrence of any of the following events or conditions namely a default in the payment or performance of the installment note of even date or of any of the obligations or any covenants or liabilities contained or referred to herein any warranty representation or statement made or furnished to secured party by or on behalf of debtor proving to have been false in any material respect when made or furnished loss theft substantial damage destruction sale or encumbrance to or of any of the collateral or the making of any levy seizure or attachment thereof or thereon or death dissolution termination of existence insolvency business failure appointment of a receiver of any part of the property of or assignment for the benefit of creditors by debtor. upon debtor default and at any time thereafter such default not having previously been cured secured party at its option may declare all obligations secured hereby immediately due and payable and hj ex. i i i shall have the remedies of a secured party under the uniform commercial code of iowa including without limitation the right to take immediate and exclusive possession of the collateral or any part thereof and for that purpose may so far as debtor can give authority therefor with or without judicial process enter if this can be done without breach of the peace upon any premises on which the collateral or any part thereof may be situated and remove the same therefrom and the secured party shall be entitled to hold. maintain preserve and prepare the collateral for sale until disposed of may retain or propose to retain the collateral subject to debtor right of redemption in satisfaction of the debtor obligations as provided in the uniform commercial code of iowa. secured party without removal may render the collateral unusable and dispose of the collateral on the debtor premises. secured party may require debtor to assemble the collateral and make it available to secured party for possession at a place to be designated by secured party which is reasonably convenient to both parties. unless the collateral is perishable or threatens to decline speedily in value or is of a type customarily sold on a recognized market secured party will give debtor at least days notice of the time and place of any public sale thereof or the time after which any private sale or any other intended disposition thereof is to be made. the requirements of reasonable notice shall be met if such notice is mailed postage prepaid to the address of the debtor shown at the beginning of this agreement at least five days before the time of the sale or disposition. secured party may buy at any public sale and if the collateral is of a type customarily sold in a recognized market or is of a type which is the subject of widely distributed standard price quotations he may buy at private sale. the net proceeds realized upon any such disposition after deduction for the expenses of retaking holding preparing for sale or lease selling leasing and the like and the reasonable attorneys fees and legal expenses incurred by secured party applied in satisfaction of the obligations secured thereby. the secured party will account to the debtor for any surplus realized on such disposition and the debtor shail remain liable for any deficiency. the remedies of secured party hereunder are cumulative and the exercise of any one or more of the remedies provided for herein or under the uniform commercial code of iowa shall not be construed as a waiver of any of the other remedies of the secured party so long as any part of the debtor obligations remain unsatisfied. no waiver by secured party of any default shall operate as a waiver of any other default or of the same default on a future occasion. all rights of secured party hereunder shall inure tc the benefit of its successors and assigns and all obligations of debtor shall bind his heirs executors or administrators or his or its successors or assigns. if there be more than one debtor their obligations hereunder shall be joint and several. this agreement shall become effective when it is signed by debtor. all rights of the secured party in to and under this agreement and in and to the collateral shall pass to and may be exercised by any assignee thereof. the debtor agrees that if the secured party gives notice to the debtor of an assignment of said rights upon such notice the liability of the debtor to the assignee shall be immediate and absolute. the debtor will not set up any claim against the secured party as a defense counterclaim or set off to any action brought by any such assignee for the unpaid balance owed hereunder or for possession of the collateral provided that debtor shall not waive hereby any right hj ex. i of action to the extent that waiver thereof is expressly made unenforceable under applicable law. if any provision of this agreement shall be prohibited by or invalid under applicable law such provision shall be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or invalidity without invalidating the remainder of such provision or the remaining provisions of this agreement. this agreement shall be interpreted and enforced in accordance with the laws of the state of iowa. in witness whereof the parties hereto have set their hands and seals the date first above written. secured party happy joe franchising incorporated an iowa corporation by title debtor witness individually witness individually attest secretary and or as an officer partner or member of by signature title designate form of entity hj ex. exhibit to franchise agreement happy joe delco colorado brand facility franchise addendum this is an addendum to the happy joe franchising incorporated franchise agreement by and between happy joe franchising incorporated franchisor and franchisee dated the franchise agreement. all capitalized or initially capitalized terms used in this addendum but not defined herein shall have the same meaning as ascribed to them in the franchise agreement. the happy joe delco facility franchise contemplated by this addendum will be subject to all of the provisions contained in the franchise agreement as modified by this addendum. happy joe delco facility is a facility offering predominantly delivery service and carry out service only with a drive up window but which may have limited on premises dining and which incorporates the features of the carry out franchise concept into the delivery only franchise unit. the happy joe delco facility which is the subject of this addendum is located in a premises in which one or more other retail facilities are offering products and services under different brand whether franchised or non franchised and with which the happy joe delco facility may share common dining area happy joe delco colorado brand facility. paragraph hawaii of the franchise agreement on franchisor assistance shall be deleted in its entirety and replaced by the following it shall be the sole responsibility of franchisee to undertake site selection activities and othenwise secure the premises subject to the approval of franchisor. no approval by franchisor of a site submitted by franchisee shall be interpreted as a guarantee of success at said location. paragraph iii. of the franchise agreement on remodeling shaii only apply to furniture fixtures equipment signs and decoration relating to the operation of the happy joe delco colorado brand facility franchise at the premises. paragraph xii. of the franchise agreement on menu items shall be amended in its entirety to read as follows franchisor and franchisee shall agree in rider to this addendum which menu items franchisee shall offer and sell at the happy joe delco colorado brand facility franchise. franchisee shall not be prohibited from offering food and beverage products on the premises from other than the happy joe delco colorado brand facility franchise as long as franchisee does not offer and sell food and beverage products similar to those listed in rider. hj. the requirements of paragraph xii. of the franchise agreement on imprinted products shall only apply to the following products. paragraph xii. of the franchise agreement on coin operated machines shall be deleted. paragraph xii. of the franchise agreement on annual holiday party for special needs children shall be amended in part to state that the annual holiday party shall take place at the premises of the happy joe delco colorado brand facility franchise or other location approved by franchisor. in section xvii of the franchise agreement on rights and duties of parties upon expiration or termination xvii. on assignment of franchisee lease to franchisor shall be deleted and xvii. on assignment of all telephone and facsimile numbers to franchisor shall only apply to any lines dedicated solely to the happy joe delco colorado brand facility franchise. franchisee hereby represents and warrants that by entenng into the franchise agreement and this happy joe delco facility franchise addendum franchisee is not in violation of any other franchise agreement or other contract to which franchisee is a party. this addendum is executed as of this day of. attest happy joe franchising incorporated by title attest witness franchisee by title by title hj delcoadd. rider to happy joe delco colorado brand facility franchise addendum menu items franchisor and franchisee agree that based on the other products and services being offered at the same premises as the happy joe delco colorado brand facility franchise under different brand shall be located the menu of the happy joe delco colorado brand facility franchise shall be limited to the following date happy joe franchising incorporated franchisee by by. title title happy joe franchising incorporated rudy tacos amendment to franchise agreement exhibit to the franchise disclosure document hj fdd happy joe rudy tacos amendment to franchise agreement this is an amendment to the happy joe franchising incorporated franchise agreement by and between happy joe franchising incorporated franchisor and franchisee dated the franchise agreement. all capitalized or initially capitalized terms used in this amendment to franchise agreement but not defined herein shall have the same meaning as ascribed to them in the franchise agreement. the license contemplated by this amendment to franchise agreement will be subject to all of the provisions contained in the franchise agreement as modified by this amendment to franchise agreement. recitals whereas franchisor and franchisee either i have previously entered into a franchise agreement whereby franchisee was granted certain rights to own and operate a happy joe restaurant or ii are entering into a franchise agreement for the right to own and operate a happy joe restaurant contemporaneously with this amendment whereas franchisee desires to be granted the right to offer rudy tacos menu items under the rudy marks in franchisee happy joe restaurant and to use the rudy proprietary information in connection with offering and selling rudy tacos menu items whereas franchisor has been granted a license by louisiana rosa. incorporated louisiana rosa the owner of the rudy tacos menu items rudy marks and rudy proprietary information to sublicense the use of the rudy tacos menu items rudy marks and rudy proprietary information to its franchisees in connection with operating happy joe restaurants under certain terms and conditions which must be agreed upon by franchisee whereas franchisor is willing to grant a license to franchisee to use the rudy tacos menu items rudy marks and rudy proprietary information on the terms and conditions set forth herein and franchisee accepts the grant of the license on the terms and conditions set forth herein. now therefore in consideration of the promises and the mutual agreements provisions and covenants contained in this amendment franchisor and franchisee hereby agree as follows. the recitals above are incorporated herein and made part of this agreement. definitions. the following defined terms as used herein will have the meanings set forth below. rudy marks is defined as the name trademark and service mark rudy tacos and related logos and commercial symbols owned by louisiana rosa and licensed to franchisor with rights to sublicense to its franchisees and such other trade names service marks trademarks and logos as may be designated by louisiana rosa in the future for use by franchisor and its sublicensees. rudy tacos menu items is defined as the proprietary menu items of louisiana rosa including but not limited to tacos tostados enchiladas burritos sanchos tamales nachos chimichangas quesadilla and related appetizers as they may be changed from time to time. rudy proprietary information is defined as that certain confidential and proprietary assets of louisiana rosa and its affiliates including without limitation non public information regarding recipes customers pricing policies methods of operation products profits costs markets key personnel formulae product applications technical processes inventions discoveries ideas concepts improvements know how and trade secret. rudy manual is defined as louisiana rosa food preparation manuals and other written policies procedures standards and specifications relating to the offer and sale of rudy tacos menu items as they may be developed and further refined from time to time. grant of license fee. franchisor hereby grants to franchisee upon the terms and conditions herein contained the right license and privilege to use the rudy marks the rudy tacos menu items. the rudys proprietary information and the rudy manuals as they may be changed improved and further developed.from time to time at the premises of the happy joe restaurant. in consideration thereof upon the execution of this agreement franchisee shall pay to franchisor a non refundable license fee in the amount of five thousand dollars. franchisee acknowledges and agrees that franchisor shall have the right to determine which rudy tacos menu items are approved for sale by franchisee at the franchised facility. the parties agree that franchisee may offer at the franchised facility the rudy tacos menu items set forth in exhibit attached hereto. rudy marks. franchisee shall use and display the rudy marks in connection with the offer and sale of rudy tacos menu items at franchisee happy joe restaurant and in advertising and promoting the rudy tacos menu items subject to the terms contained herein. franchisee acknowledges that louisiana rosa is the owner of all right title and interest together with all the goodwill of the rudy marks. franchisee further acknowledges that franchisee right to use the rudy marks is derived solely from this agreement and is limited to the conduct of business by franchisee pursuant to and in compliance with this amendment to franchise agreement. any unauthorized use of the rudy marks by franchisee is a breach of this amendment and the franchise agreement and an infringement of the rights of louisiana rosa in and to the rudy marks. franchisee acknowledges that all usage of the rudy marks by franchisee and any goodwill established by franchisee use of the rudy marks shall inure to the exclusive benefit of louisiana rosa and that this agreement does not confer any goodwill or other interests in the rudy marks upon franchisee. franchisee shall not at any time during the term of this agreement or after its termination or expiration contest the validity or ownership of the rudy marks or assist any other person in contesting the validity or ownership of the rudy marks. franchisor makes no representation or warranty express or implied as to the use exclusive ownership validity or enforceability of the rudy marks. term. this agreement shall be effective and binding from the date of its execution by both parties until the date of expiration of franchisee current franchise agreement which island unless sooner terminated by either party according to the terms of this amendment to franchise agreement including the expiration and non renewal of the license agreement between franchisor and larosa. this amendment to franchise agreement may only be renewed in conjunction with the renewal of the franchise agreement between franchisor and franchisee and on the condition that franchisor continues to have an existing license with louisiana rosa to sublicense the rudy marks and rudy tacos menu items and subject to the termination provisions herein. training. prior to franchisee commencement of operations if franchisee is executing a franchise agreement contemporaneously with this agreement or prior to the date on which franchisee will begin offering rudy tacos menu items if franchisee is already operating a happy joe restaurant franchisor shall provide training to franchisee or to one of franchisee designates relating to the offer and sale of rudy tacos menu items required inventory equipment and supplies methods of preparation and other related procedures standards and specifications. the training shall consist of i approximately two weeks of training at company headquarters and at a happy joe restaurant that sells rudy tacos menu items and ii approximately one week of initial assistance at franchisee franchised facility and at franchisee expense including but not limited to franchisor representative salary around the time that franchisee begins offering rudy tacos menu items. if franchisee is executing a new franchise agreement contemporaneously with this amendment the second portion of the training shall be in conjunction with the initial assistance provided by franchisor representatives at franchisee premises pursuant to section iv. of the franchise agreement. such training may be conducted by franchisor or by representatives of louisiana rosa at franchisor discretion. franchisee is required to attend and successfully complete both phases of the training before offering rudy tacos menu items at franchisee happy joe restaurant. all expenses incurred by franchisee and any employees in attending such training including without limitation travel costs room and board expenses and employees salaries shall be the sole responsibility of franchisee. franchisee shall be responsible for training its managers and employees as necessary relating to the offer and sale of rudy tacos menu items at franchisee happy joe restaurant. rudy manual. franchisor shall loan to franchisee during the term of the franchise one copy of the rudy manual. louisiana rosa shall have the right to add to and otherwise modify the rudy manual from time to time to reflect changes in the specifications standards operating procedures and rules prescribed by louisiana rosa provided that no such addition or modification shall alter franchisee fundamental status and rights under this amendment to franchise agreement. franchisor shall promptly deliver any modifications or changes to franchisee as they become available. the rudy manual shall at all times remain the sole property of louisiana rosa and shall promptly be returned upon the expiration or other termination of this agreement. franchisee shall not copy disclose or use the rudy manual in any manner. the rudy manual must be kept confidential by franchisee both during the term of the franchise and subsequent to the expiration and or termination of the franchise. franchisor may provide additions to the happy joe manuals to address the manner in which franchisee offer and sale of rudy tacos menu items is to be conducted within the franchised facility. vll. rudy proprietary information. franchisee shall have the right to use rudy proprietary information in connection with offering and selling rudy tacos menu items during this term of this amendment to franchise agreement. at all times during the term of this amendment to franchise agreement and thereafter franchisee shall maintain the confidentiality of the rud proprietary information. initial advertising approval of advertising. franchisee shall advertise and promote the rudy tacos menu items using the rudy marks in the manner permitted by franchisor. within the first six from the date on which franchisee begins offering rudy tacos menu items franchisee shall conduct a grand opening advertising campaign promoting the additional new products being offered. franchisee shall submit to franchisor for approval the form and content of any promotional or advertising materials to be used by franchisee containing any of the rudy marks and specifying the media in which such materials are to be used prior to their use which promotional or advertising materials shall also be submitted by franchisor to louisiana rosa for its approval which shall not be unreasonably withheld. such use may be subject to such reasonable conditions as louisiana rosa may impose to afford louisiana rosa adequate protection of the rudy marks. franchisor shall promptly notify franchisee once it has determined if the promotional or advertising materials are approved and once it has received an approval or disapproval of franchisee promotional or advertising material from louisiana rosa. national franchise board. if franchisee is not a member of the happy joe national franchise board prior to the date of execution of this amendment to franchise agreement upon the execution of this agreement franchisee shall become a member of and participate actively in happy joe national franchise board and participate in all national franchise board programs. the purposes of the national franchise board include but are not limited to exchanging ideas and problem solving methods advising franchisor on expenditures for regional advertising supplies selection product development building design and menu items providing back up support and staffing for political influence and coordinating franchisee efforts. franchisee shall pay all assessments levied by the national franchise board in the manner required by the national franchise board including by electronic transfer of funds and franchisee shall execute such documents as necessary to authorize the electronic transfer of funds or other method of collection of contributions. for any assessments based on gross sales the gross sales from the sale of rudy tacos menu items shall be included by franchisee in calculating the total gross revenue on which the assessment is to be calculated. franchisor has the right to enforce this monetary obligation on behalf of the national franchise board. amounts and expenditures may van from time to time and due to variations in national franchise board participation and costs as determined by the national franchise board and as approved by franchisor. although franchisee shall pay such national franchise board assessments such assessments shall in no way diminish franchisee rights and the benefit of the bargain under this agreement. royalty fee. all sales of rudy tacos menu items shall be subject to the royalty fee payments that franchisee is required to make to franchisor pursuant to the franchise agreement. franchisee shall make payments of royalty fees from the sales of rudy tacos menu items along with and in the same manner as royalty fees are paid on other gross sales of the franchised facility except that if franchisee franchise agreement provides for payment of the royalty fee on a monthly basis. franchisor may require that franchisee report gross sales from the sale of rudy tacos menu items michigan and pay the royalty fee on the gross sales from the sale of rudy tacos menu items on a weekly basis. franchisee shall report gross sales from the sale of rudy tacos menu items in the manner that franchisor directs. payments by electronic transfer. all royalty fees advertising contributions amounts due for purchases by franchisee from franchisor and other amounts which franchisee owes to franchisor under the franchise agreement and this amendment shall be paid through an electronic depository transfer account electronic depository transfer account as further described in the manual. immediately following execution of this agreement if franchisee has not already done so. franchisee shall set up an electronic depository transfer account and shall execute the authorization for electronic transfer of funds attached hereto as exhibit to this agreement and any other documents required by franchisee financial institution in connection with setting up such account. franchisor shall have access to such account for the purpose of receiving payment for royalty fees advertising contributions amounts due for purchases by franchisee from franchisor and any other amounts which franchisee owes to franchisor. by monday of each week. franchisee shall make deposits to the account sufficient to cover amounts owed to franchisor for royalty fees advertising contributions and other monies owed to franchisor. deposits for all other amounts owed to franchisor shall be in accordance with the procedures set forth in the manual. if franchisee fails to submit to franchisor the statement of gross sales in the manner and in the time period required by the terms of this agreement the amount of royalty fees and advertising contributions owed by franchisee with respect to the preceding week ending sunday will be the amount reported or calculated for the previous week ending sunday plus ten percent as an estimate of the royalty fees and advertising contributions due. when franchisor receives franchisee delinquent statement of gross sales franchisor will conduct a reconciliation of the amount of royalty fees and advertising contributions actually owed by franchisee. in the event that the reconciliation indicates that royalty fees and advertising contributions are owed to franchisor franchisee will be required to pay franchisor any such amounts. in the event that the reconciliation indicates that franchisee has overpaid its royalty fees and advertising contributions. franchisor will provide franchisee with a credit in the amount of such overpayment. recording of rudy sales. franchisee shall record all sales of rudy tacos menu items on the computer based point of sale system or cash registers which are used for the operation of the happy joe restaurant. further all sales of rudy tacos menu items shall be recorded separate and apart from other sales at the happy joe restaurant in the manner specified by franchisor. franchisee shall submit to franchisor such additional reports forms or data as franchisor requires concerning the rudy tacos menu items and sales in the manner and at the time specified by franchisor. franchisor reserves the right to require that certain reports or forms be submitted directly to louisiana rosa. right to inspect books and records. upon request made to franchisor louisiana rosa or its designated agents have the right at all reasonable times to examine and copy at the expense of the louisiana rosa the books and records of franchisee however such examination shall solely relate to the sale of rudy tacos menu items and shall be arranged through franchisor. louisiana rosa also has the right at any time to have an independent audit made of the books of franchisee related to the sale of rudy tacos i menu items. such audit shall be conducted with prior notice to franchisor and shall be scheduled through franchisor and franchisor may have a representative present at the inspection. if an inspection should reveal that any payments due based on sales of rudy tacos menu items have been understated in any report submitted by franchisee then franchisee must immediately pay franchisor the amount understated upon demand in addition to interest from the date such amount was due until paid at two percent per month calculated on a daily basis or the maximum rate permitted by law whichever is less. if an inspection discloses an understatement in any report of two percent or more and it is found that franchisee also understated sales in reports submitted by franchisee franchisee shall in addition reimburse louisiana rosa directly for one half of any and all costs and expenses connected with the inspection including without limitation. louisiana rosa reasonable accounting and attorneys fees. the foregoing is in addition to the inspection rights of franchisor pursuant to the franchise agreement. operations standards. franchisee shall comply with all requirements set forth in this amendment to the franchise agreement the rudy manual franchisor operations manuals and other written policies and procedures relating to the offer and sale of rudy tacos menu items supplied to franchisee by franchisor and or louisiana rosa. such mandatory specifications standards operating procedures and rules prescribed from time to time by franchisor or by louisiana rosa shall constitute provisions of the franchise agreement as if fully set forth therein. in order to ensure that all rudy tacos menu items produced by franchisee meet louisiana rosa standards and in order to protect the rudy marks all rudy tacos menu items must be prepared only by properiy trained personnel strictly in accordance with rudy proprietary information and the rudy manual. franchisee shall not alter dilute substitute or otherwise change the quality or composition of any of rudy tacos menu items or the ingredients therein. right to inspect premises. if louisiana rosa reasonably believes that franchisee is not abiding by the terms of this amendment to franchise agreement and or is misusing the rudy marks or rudy proprietary information and or is not complying with the rudy manual louisiana rosa representatives shall have the right to inspect the premises of franchisee happy joe restaurant with prior notice to franchisor to determine compliance with this amendment to franchise agreement and to monitor the quality of services being provided respecting the sale of rudy tacos menu items. such inspection shall be scheduled through franchisor and franchisor will have one of its representatives present for the inspection. use of rudy marks. all use and display of the rudy marks on the premises of franchisee happy joe restaurant including on menus paper products and signage and in promotional and advertising material shall be done solely in the manner permitted by franchisor and communicated to franchisee in franchisor manual or othena ise in writing. franchisee acknowledges and agrees that the use of the rudy marks on the premises and in promotional and advertising material shall be secondary to the use of franchisor marks. transfer. this amendment to franchise agreement and all rights hereunder may be not be assigned or otherwise transferred by franchisee except in conjunction with the assignment or transfer of franchisee franchise agreement with the consent of franchisor as provided in the franchise agreement. termination by franchisee. franchisee shall have the right to terminate this amendment to franchise agreement and cease offering and selling rudy tacos menu items at franchisee franchised facility. such termination shall be effective thirty days after delivery to franchisor of written notice to franchisor of franchisee intent to terminate. termination by franchisee of this amendment to franchise agreement and the right to offer and sell rudy tacos menu items is not a termination of the underiying franchise agreement and such franchise agreement shall remain in effect after the date of termination of this amendment to franchise agreement. termination by franchisor. this amendment to franchise agreement and the license granted hereunder shall terminate automatically upon delivery of written notice of termination to franchisee a if the franchise agreement between franchisee and franchisor is terminated. the license agreement behveen franchisor and louisiana rosa expires on november and is not renewed. the license agreement between franchisor and larosa is terminated by either franchisor or louisiana rosa according to its terms franchisee acknowledges that the license agreement between franchisor and larosa may be terminated at any time by either party for breach of the license agreement by the other party and failure to cure and that the license agreement may be terminated by franchisor at any time if franchisee makes a decision that the franchise system shall no longer offer rudy tacos menu items in happy joe restaurants and that all use of the rudy marks and menu items shall cease. termination under this subsection. shall become effective thirty days after delivery of notice to franchisee. if franchisee or its owner or manager is convicted of or pleads no contest to a felony or other crime or offense that is likely to adversely affect the reputation of louisiana rosa rudy marks and or the rudy tacos menu items. if franchisee or its owner or manager continues to violate any health safety or sanitation taw ordinance or regulation or operates the happy joe restaurant in a manner that presents a health or safety hazard to its customers or the public after receiving written notice of the violation from any governmental or regulatory agency or from franchisor or from louisiana rosa. if franchisee falls or refuses to make payments of any amounts due franchisor for royalty fees due on sales of rudy tacos menu items under this amendment to franchise agreement or fails or refuses to report sales of rudy tacos menu items in the manner and time required by franchisor and does not correct such failure or refusal within ten business days after written notice of such failure is delivered to franchisee. if franchisee fails or refuses to comply with any other provision of this amendment to franchise agreement or any mandatory specification standard or operating procedure prescribed in the rudy manual or otherwise in writing relating to the offer and sale of rudy tacos menu items and does i i i not correct such failure within thirty days or provide proof acceptable to franchisor that it has made all reasonable efforts to correct such failure and shall continue to make all reasonable efforts to cure until a cure is effected if such failure cannot reasonably be corrected within thirty days after written notice of such failure to comply is delivered to franchisee. if franchisee fails or refuses to comply with any provision of the franchise agreement or any mandatory specification standard or operating procedure prescribed in the happy joe manuals or othenwise in writing relating to the operation of franchisee franchised facilib and does not correct such failure within thirty days or provide proof acceptable to franchisor that it has made all reasonable efforts to correct such failure and shall continue to make alteration reasonable efforts to cure until a cure is effected if such failure cannot reasonably be corrected within thirty days after written notice of such failure to comply is delivered to franchisee regardless of whether franchisee is in compliance with its operations regarding the offer and sale of rudy tacos menu items. in such event this license may be terminated without the termination of franchisee franchise agreement. to the extent that the provisions of this amendment to franchise agreement provide for periods of notice less than those required by applicable law or provide for termination cancellation non renewal or the like other than in accordance with applicable law. such provisions shall to the extent they are not in accordance with applicable law not be effective and franchisor shall comply with applicable.law in connection with each of these matters. effect of termination of this amendment to franchise agreement. except as set forth in paragraph.a above the termination of this amendment to franchise agreement and the license granted hereunder does not terminate or affect the validity of the franchise agreement between franchisor and franchisee and the franchise agreement will remain in effect any termination of the franchise agreement between franchisor and franchisee shall be in accordance with the applicable terms of the franchise agreement. rights and duties of parties upon expiration or termination. upon termination or expiration this amendment to franchise agreement and all rights granted hereunder to franchisee shall forthwith terminate and a franchisee shall immediately cease to offer and sell rudy tacos menu items at franchisee happy joe restaurant. franchisee shall immediately and permanently cease to use in any manner whatsoever the rudy proprietary information the rudy marks and the rudy manual. in particular. franchisee shall cease to use without limitation all signs advertising or promotional materials menus forms and any other articles which display the rudy marks. franchisee shall promptly pay all sums owing to franchisor under this amendment to franchise agreement. franchisee shall pay to franchisor all damages costs and expenses including reasonable attorneys fees incurred by franchisor subsequent to the termination or expiration of this amendment to franchise agreement in obtaining injunctive or other relief for the enforcement of any provisions of this section and section of this agreement. franchisee shall immediately turn over to franchisor or louisiana rosa as directed by franchisor at franchisee expense the rudy manual and any evidence of rudy proprietary information. franchisee shall comply with the covenants contained in section of this amendment to franchise agreement. all obligations of franchisor and franchisee hereunder which expressly or by their nature survive the expiration or termination of this amendment to franchise agreement shall continue in full force and effect regardless of the expiration or termination until they are satisfied or by their nature expire. non competition agreement. upon the expiration or termination of this amendment to franchise agreement and the license granted to franchisee hereunder franchisee agrees for a period of one year after the expiration or termination of this amendment to not own maintain engage in or have any interest in any business which sells or offers to sell mexican food at a location within a five mile radius of franchisee happy joe restaurant where franchisee offered and sold rudy tacos menu items. acknowledgements. franchisee has conducted an independent investigation of the optional add on of the rudy tacos menu items to the operation of franchisee happy joe restaurant business and recognizes that like any other business an investment in the offer and sale of rudy tacos menu items involves business risks and that the success of the business venture contemplated by this amendment to franchise agreement is speculative. franchisor does not make any representation or warranty express or implied as to the potential success of the business venture contemplated hereby. franchisee acknowledges understands and agrees that this license may be terminated at any time based on the expiration or termination of company license to use and sub license the rudy marks under the license agreement between company and larosa including by company decision to terminate the license agreement at its option. franchisee acknowledges understands and agrees that in such event. franchisee will not be entitled to any refund of monies paid to company or any monies expended by franchisee in order to be able to offer and sell rudy taco menu items and franchisee hereby waives any right to make a claim or bring any action for a refund or reimbursement for such monies against company. this addendum is executed as of this day of attest happy joe franchising incorporated by title attestaa itness franchisee by title by title i i i exhibit to rudy taco amendment to franchise agreement menu items franchisor and franchisee agree that franchisee may be permitted to offer the following rudy tacos menu items for sale at franchisee franchised facility. date happy joe franchising incorporated franchisee by by title title exhibit to amendment to franchise agreement authorization for electronic transfer of funds the form below is authorization for electronic transfer of funds from your checking account for payment of fees according to section. of the franchise agreement and other authorized optional payments. it it authorization for automatic payment authorize happy joe franchising incorporated and the bank named below to initiate variable entries to my checking account for payment of weekly royalties required advertising contributions if any amounts due for purchases from happy joe franchising incorporated amounts due under notes to happy joe franchising incorporated and any other amounts due to happy joe franchising incorporated under the franchise agreement or other optional payments authorized by me in writing and for payment of contributions due to the happy joe national franchise board collected by happy joe franchising incorporated on behalf of the happy joe national franchise board. type or print the following name of financial institution address of financial institution account name account address bank routing number checking account number ii irish irii kii irii irit tt it it it this authorization will remain in effect through the term of the franchise agreement between happy joe franchising incorporated and franchisee or until franchisee provides happy joe franchising incorporated with a replacement authorization for electronic transfer of funds for a different financial institution and or account. franchisee agrees to notify happy joe franchising incorporated at least thirty days in advance of any change in financial institutions or accounts in connection with this authorization. franchisee date signature print name franchise print title happy joe franchising incorporated exhibit to the franchise disclosure document state addendum some administrators of franchise registration states may require company to enter into an addendum to the happy joe franchising incorporated franchise disclosure document and franchise agreement describing certain state laws or regulations which may supersede the franchise disclosure document or franchise agreement. if you are in a registration state which requires an addendum it will follow this page. hj fdd happy joe franchising incorporated addendum to the franchise disclosure document for the state of minnesota the happy joe franchising incorporated franchise disclosure document for use in the state of minnesota is modified in accordance with the following. item of the franchise disclosure document is amended by the addition of the following language to the original language that appears therein with respect to franchises governed by minnesota law franchisor will comply with minn. statistical second circa subd. and which require except in certain specified cases that a franchisee be given days notice of termination with days to cure and days notice for non renewal of the franchise agreement. item of the franchise disclosure document is amended by the addition of the following language to the original language that appears therein the execution of a genera! release as a condition for renewal or for assignment of the franchise shall be inapplicable to franchises operating in minnesota. item of the franchise disclosure document is amended by the addition of the following language to the original language that appears therein minn. statistical second and minn. rule part. j prohibit us from requiring litigation to be conducted outside of minnesota. in addition nothing in the franchise disclosure document or agreement can abrogate or reduce any your rights as provided for in minnesota statutes chapter county or your rights to any procedure forum or remedies provided for by the laws of the jurisdiction. item of the franchise disclosure document on trademarks is amended by the addition of the following language to the original language that appears therein in the event franchisee right to the use of any name mark or commercial symbol licensed hereunder is the subject of any claim suit or demand a threat. franchisor shall either defend franchisee against the threat or indemnify franchisee from any loss costs or expenses arising therefrom provided and on condition. franchisee hj. minnesota addend. delivers to franchisor prompt written notice of the threat. grants franchisor written authorization to take unrestricted control over the defense and settlement of the threat with counsel of its choice. did not cause or give rise to the threat due to a material failure to comply with franchisor previously communicated trademark usage requirements. cooperates promptly and fully with franchisor in the defense mitigation and or settlement of the threat and. does not jeopardize or compromise any right defense obligation or liability of franchisor by making any statement to or entering into any agreement with the threatening party which does not have the advance written consent of franchisor unless required by applicable law. hj. minnesota addend. happy joe franchising incorporated addendum to the franchise agreement for the state of minnesota this addendum is to a franchise agreement dated between happy joe franchising incorporated franchisor and franchisee to amend said agreement as follows. section ii. of the franchise agreement on renewal term and requirements and section xvi. of the franchise agreement on default and termination is amended by the addition of the following language to the original language that appears therein minnesota law provides franchisees with certain termination and non renewal rights. minn. statistical second circa subd. and require except in certain specified cases that a franchisee be given days notice of termination with days to cure and days notice for non renewal of the franchise agreement. these provisions of minnesota law are hereby incorporated by reference in this agreement. section ii. of the franchise agreement on renewal term and requirements and section xvill. of the franchise agreement on transfer by franchisee are amended by the addition of the following language to the original language that appears therein the execution of a general release upon renewal shall be inapplicable to franchises operating in minnesota. section. of the franchise agreement on proprietary marks is amended by the addition of the following language to the original language that appears therein in the event franchisee right to the use of any name mark or commercial symbol licensed hereunder is the subject of any claim suit or demand a threat. franchisor shall either defend franchisee against the threat or indemnify franchisee from any loss costs or expenses arising therefrom provided and on condition. franchisee. delivers to franchisor prompt written notice of the threat. grants franchisor written authorization to take unrestricted control over the defense and settlement of the threat with counsel of its choice hj. minnesota addend. did not cause or give rise to the threat due to a material failure to comply with franchisor previously communicated trademark usage requirements. cooperates promptly and fully with franchisor in the defense mitigation and or settlement of the threat and. does not jeopardize or compromise any right defense obligation or liability of franchisor by making any statement to or entering into any agreement with the threatening party which does not have the advance written consent of franchisor unless required by applicable law. section xxix. of the franchise agreement on applicable law is amended by the addition of the following language to the original language that appears therein minn. statistical second circa and minn. rule part. j prohibit us from requiring litigation to be conducted outside of minnesota. in addition nothing in the franchise disclosure document or agreement can abrogate or reduce any your rights as provided for in minnesota statutes chapter county or your rights to any procedure forum or remedies provided for by the laws of the jurisdiction. in witness whereof each of the undersigned hereby acknowledges having read this addendum understands and consents to be bound by all of its terms and agrees it shall become effective the day of. attest happy joe franchising incorporated by. title attesta vitness franchisee by. title. title hj. minnesota addend. happy joe franchising incorporated addendum to the area development agreement for the state of minnesota this addendum is to an area development agreement dated between happy joe franchising incorporated franchisor and developer to amend said agreement as follows. section vii. of the area development agreement on default and termination is amended by the addition of the following language to the original language that appears therein minnesota law provides franchisees with certain termination and non renewal rights. minn. statistical second subd. and require except in certain specified cases that a franchisee be given days notice of termination with days to cure and days notice for non renewal of the franchise agreement. these provisions of minnesota law are hereby incorporated by reference in this agreement. section vin of the area development agreement on transferability is amended by the addition of the following language to the original language that appears therein. section xvii. of the area development agreement on applicable law is amended by the addition of the following language to the original language that appears therein minn. statistical second and minn. rule part. j prohibit us from requiring litigation to be conducted outside of minnesota. in addition nothing in the franchise disclosure document or agreement can abrogate or reduce any your rights as provided for in minnesota statutes chapter county or your rights to any procedure forum or remedies provided for by the laws of the jurisdiction. hj.mn addend in witness whereof each of the undersigned hereby acknowledges having read this addendum understands and consents to be bound by all of its terms and agrees it shall become effective the day of. if developer is an individual attest happy joe franchising incorporated by. if developer is a corporation or partnership developer attesta vitness happy joe franchising incorporated by. hj.mn addend. developer by by. copy for you receipt this disclosure document summarizes provisions of the franchise agreement and other information in plain language. read this disclosure document and all agreements carefully. if happy joe franchising incorporated offers you a franchise it must provide this disclosure document to you calendar days before you sign a binding agreement with or make a payment to us or an affiliate in connection with the proposed franchise sale. if happy joe franchising incorporated does not deliver this disclosure document on time or if it contains a false or misleading statement or a material omission a violation of federal and state law may have occurred and should be reported to the federal trade commission washington. and the appropriate state agency identified in exhibit. the name principal business address and telephone number of each franchise seller offering the franchise thomas anderson and lan whitty happy joe drive bettendorf iowa and issuance date january. see exhibit for our registered agents authorized to receive service of process. have received the happy joe franchising incorporated disclosure document dated january. that included the following exhibits. financial statements franchise agreement including authorization for electronic transfer of funds conversion addendum delco colorado brand facility addendum collateral assignment of lease conditional assignment of telephone numbers area development agreement satellite location addendum list of state agents for service of process and state administrators table of contents of the manual list of happy joe restaurants list of certain former franchisees installment note and security agreement rudy tacos amendment to franchise agreement state addendum if applicable dated signed a a name address phone individually or as an officer or partner of corporation partnership last page hj fdd copy for company receipt this disclosure document summarizes provisions of the franchise agreement and other information in plain language. read this disclosure document and all agreements carefully. if happy joe franchising incorporated offers you a franchise it must provide this disclosure document to you calendar days before you sign a binding agreement with or make a payment to us or an affiliate in connection with the proposed franchise sale. if happy joe franchising incorporated does not deliver this disclosure document on time or if it contains a false or misleading statement or a material omission a violation of federal and state law may have occurred and should be reported to the federal trade commission washington. and the appropriate state agency identified in exhibit. the name principal business address and telephone number of each franchise seller offering the franchise thomas anderson and larry whitty happy joe drive bettendorf. iowa and issuance date january. see exhibit for our registered agents authorized fo receive sen ice of process. have received the happy joe franchising incorporated disclosure document dated january. that included the following exhibits. financial statements franchise agreement including authorization for electronic transfer of funds conversion addendum delco colorado brand facility addendum collateral assignment of lease conditional assignment of telephone numbers area development agreement satellite location addendum list of state agents for service of process and state administrators table of contents of the manual list of happy joe restaurants list of certain former franchisees installment note and security agreement rudy tacos amendment to franchise agreement state addendum if applicable dated signed a a name address phone individually or as an officer or partner of corporation partnership last page hj fdd