franchise disclosure document painting llc armed forces americas delaware limited liability companylimited liability company peter jefferson parkway suite charlottesville virginia pflick painting.com the franchise offered is for the establishment and operation of businessesa home based mobile business that providethat provides a full range of painting and wall finishing services for both exterior and interior portions of residences and light commercial buildings a unit franchise. the total investment necessary to begin operation of a painting llc franchised businesspainting franchise is from. to. this includes that must be paid to usthe franchisor or affiliate. this disclosure document summarizes certain provisions of your franchise agreement and other information in plain english. read this disclosure document and all accompanying agreements carefully. you must receive this disclosure document at least calendar days before you sign a binding agreement with or make any payment to the franchisor or an affiliate in connection with the proposed franchise sale. note however that no governmental agency has verified the information contained in this document. you may wish to receive your disclosure document in another format that is more convenient for you. to discuss the availability of disclosures in different formats contact paul flick at peter jefferson parkway suite charlottesville virginia. the terms of your contract will govern your franchise relationship. don rely on the disclosure document alone to understand your contract. read all of your contract carefully. show your contract and this disclosure document to an advisor like a lawyer or an accountant. buying a franchise is a complex investment. the information in this disclosure document can help you make up your mind. more information on franchising such as consumer guide to buying a franchise which can help you understand how to use this disclosure document is available from the federal trade commission. you can contact the ftc at ftc help or by writing to the ftc at pennsylvania avenue nw. washington. you can also visit the ftc home page at for additional information. call your state agency or visit your public library for other sources of information on franchising. there may also be laws on franchising in your state. ask your state agencies about them. mailto pflick painting.com http issuance date april amended october state cover page june ii how to use this franchise disclosure document here are some questions you may be asking about buying a franchise and tips on how to find more information question where to find information how much can earn? item may give you information about outlet sales costs profits or losses. you should also try to obtain this information from others like current and former franchisees. you can find their names and contact information in item or exhibit. how much will need to invest? items and list fees you will be paying to the franchisor or at the franchisor direction. item lists the initial investment to open. item describes the suppliers you must use. does the franchisor have the financial ability to provide support to my business? item or exhibit includes financial statements. review these statements carefully. is the franchise system stable growing or shrinking? item summarizes the recent history of the number of company owned and franchised outlets. will my business be the only painting business in my area? item and the territory provisions in the franchise agreement describe whether the franchisor and other franchisees can compete with you. does the franchisor have a troubled legal history? items and tell you whether the franchisor or its management have been involved in material litigation or bankruptcy proceedings. what it like to be a painting franchisee? item or exhibits and list current and former franchisees. you can contact them to ask about their experiences. what else should know? these questions are only a few things you should look for. review all items and all exhibits in this disclosure document to better understand this franchise opportunity. see the table of contents. iii what you need to know about franchising generally continuing responsibility to pay fees. you may have to pay royalties and other fees even if you are losing money. business model can change. the franchise agreement may allow the franchisor to change its manuals and business model without your consent. these changes may require you to make additional investments in your franchise business or may harm your franchise business. supplier restrictions. you may have to buy or lease items from the franchisor or a limited group of suppliers the franchisor designates. these items may be more expensive than similar items you could buy on your own. operating restrictions. the franchise agreement may prohibit you from operating a similar business during the term of the franchise. there are usually other restrictions. some examples may include controlling your location your access to customers what you sell how you market and your hours of operation. competition from franchisor. even if the franchise agreement grants you a territory the franchisor may have the right to compete with you in your territory. renewal. your franchise agreement may not permit you to renew. even if it does you may have to sign a new agreement with different terms and conditions in order to continue to operate your franchise business. when your franchise ends. the franchise agreement may prohibit you from operating a similar business after your franchise ends even if you still have obligations to your landlord or other creditors. some states require registration your state may have a franchise law or other law that requires a franchisorfranchisors to register or file with a state franchise administrator before offering or selling in your franchises in the state. registration does not mean that the state. registration of franchise by state does not mean that the state recommends the franchise or has verified the information in this disclosure document. call the recommends the franchise or has verified the information in this document. to find out if your state franchise administrator listed in exhibit for information about the franchisor or about franchising in your has a registration requirement or to contact your state. use the agency information in exhibit. many franchise agreements do not allow you to renew unconditionally after the initial term expires. you may have to sign new agreement with different terms and conditions in order to continue to operate your business. before you buy consider what rights you have to renew your franchise if any and what terms you might have to accept in order to renew.your state also may have laws that require special disclosures or amendments be made to your franchise agreement. if so you should check the state specific addenda. see the table of contents for the location of the state specific addenda. iv special risks to consider about this franchise certain please consider the following risk factors before you buy this franchise. the franchise agreement requires that most disagreements be submitted to litigation only in the state of our principal place of business which currently is the commonwealth of virginia. out of state litigation may force you to accept less favorable settlement for disputes. it may also cost you more to litigate with us in our home state than in your home state. the franchise agreement requires that virginia law governs the agreement and this law may not provide the same protections and benefits as loal law. you may want to compare these laws. you must pay minimum royalty and local advertising payments regardless of your sales levels. your inability to make the payments may result in termination of your franchise and loss of your investment. the franchisor financial condition as reflected in its financial statements see item calls into question the franchisor financial ability to provide services and support to you. there may be other risks concerning this franchise. we use the services of one or more franchise brokers or referral sources to assist us in selling our franchise. franchise broker or referral source represents us not you. we pay this person a fee for selling our franchise or referring you to us. you should be sure to do your own investigation of the franchise. see the attached state registrations page for state effective dates painting llc state registrations the following states require that the franchise disclosure documentfollowing risk be registered or filedhighlighted. out of state dispute resolution. the franchise agreement requires you to resolve disputes with the state or be exempt from registration california hawaii illinois franchisor by litigation only in the state of the franchisor principal place of business which is currentlyindiana maryland michigan minnesota new york north dakota rhode island south dakota virginia washington and. out of state litigation may force you to accept a less favorable settlement for disputes. it may also cost more to litigate with the franchisor in the franchisor state than in your own state. wisconsin. this franchise disclosure document is registered on file or exempt from registration in the following states having franchise registration and disclosure laws with the following effective dates state effective date california october illinois october indiana may maryland november michigan may minnesota november new york october south dakota september virginia november. mandatory minimum payments. you must pay minimum royalty and local advertising payments regardless of your sales levels. your inability to make the payments may result in termination of your franchise and loss of your investment. certain states may require other risks to be highlighted. check the state specific addenda if any to see whether your state requires other risks to be highlighted. virgin islands washington october wisconsin october i state of michigan addendum to franchise disclosure document the state of michigan prohibits certain unfair provisions that are sometimes in franchise documents. if any of the following provisions are in these franchise documents the provisions are void and cannot be enforced against you. a prohibition on the right of a franchisee to join an association of franchisees. requirement that a franchisee assent to a release assignment novation waiver or estoppel which deprives a franchisee of rights and protections provided in this act the michigan franchise investment law. this shall not preclude a franchisee after entering into a franchise agreement from settling any and all claims. provision that permits a franchisor to terminate a franchise prior to the expiration of its term except for good cause. good cause shall include the failure of the franchisee to comply with any lawful provision of the franchise agreement and to cure such failure after being given written notice thereof and a reasonable opportunity which in no event need be more than days to cure such failure. provision that permits a franchisor to refuse to renew a franchise without fairly compensating the franchisee by repurchase or other means for the fair market value at the time of expiration of the franchisee inventory supplies equipment fixtures and furnishings. personalized materials which have no value to the franchisor and inventory supplies equipment fixtures and furnishings not reasonably required in the conduct of the franchise business are not subject to compensation. this subsection only applies if i the term of the franchise is less than years and ii the franchisee is prohibited by the franchise or other agreement from continuing to conduct substantially the same business under another trademark service mark trade name logotype advertising or other commercial symbol in the same area subsequent to the expiration of the franchise or the franchisee does not receive at least months advance notice of franchisor intent not to renew the franchise. provision that permits the franchisor to refuse to renew a franchise on terms generally available to other franchisees of the same class or type under similar circumstances. this section does not require a renewal provision. provision requiring that arbitration or litigation be conducted outside this state michigan. this shall not preclude the franchisee from entering into an agreement at the time of arbitration to conduct arbitration at a location outside this state michigan. provision which permits a franchisor to refuse to permit a transfer of ownership of a franchise except for good cause. this subdivision does not prevent a franchisor from exercising a right of first refusal to purchase the franchise. good cause shall include but is not limited to i the failure of the proposed transferee to meet the franchisor then current reasonable qualifications or standards. ii the fact that the proposed transferee is a competitor of the franchisor or subfranchisor. ii iii the unwillingness of the proposed transferee to agree in writing to comply with all lawful obligations. iv the failure of the franchisee or proposed transferee to pay any sums owing to the franchisor or to cure any default in the franchise agreement existing at the time of the proposed transfer. provision that requires the franchisee to resell to the franchisor items that are not uniquely identified with the franchisor. this subdivision does not prohibit a provision that grants to a franchisor a right of first refusal to purchase the assets of a franchise on the same terms and conditions as a bona fide third party willing and able to purchase those assets nor does this subdivision prohibit a provision that grants the franchisor the right to acquire the assets of a franchise for the market or appraised value of such assets if the franchisee has breached the lawful provisions of the franchise agreement and has failed to cure the breach in the manner provided in subdivision. i provision which permits the franchisor to directly or indirectly convey assign or otherwise transfer its obligations to fulfill contractual obligations to the franchisee unless provision has been made for providing the required contractual services. the fact that there is a notice of this offering on file with the attorney general does not constitute approval recommendation or endorsement by the attorney general. any questions regarding this notice should be directed to the michigan department of attorney general consumer protection division antitrust and franchise unit law building lansing michigan. iii painting llc franchise disclosure document table of contents item the franchisor and any parents predecessors and affiliates. item business experience. item litigation. item bankruptcy. item initial fees. item other fees. item estimated initial investment. item restrictions on sources of products and services. item franchisee obligations. item financing. item franchisor assistance advertising computer systems and training. item territory. item trademarks. item patents copyrights and proprietary information. item obligation to participate in the actual operation of the franchise business. item restrictions on what the franchisee may sell. item renewal termination transfer and dispute resolution. item public figures. item financial performance representations. item outlets and franchisee information. item financial statements. item contracts. item receipts. item. the franchisor and any parents predecessors and affiliates. item. business experience. item. litigation. item. bankruptcy. item. initial fees. iv item. other fees. item. estimated initial investment. item. restrictions on sources of products and services. item. franchisee obligations. item. financing. item. franchisor assistance advertising computersystems and training. item. territory. item. trademarks. item. patents copyrights and proprietary information. item. obligation to participate in the actual operation of the franchised business. item. restrictions on what the franchisee may sell. item. renewal termination transfer and dispute resolution. item. public figures. item. financial performance representations. item. outlets and franchisee information. item. financial statements. item. contracts. item. receipts. exhibits. list of state administrators. list of agents for service of process. franchise agreement and franchise agreement exhibits. operations manual table of contents. nondisclosure agreement for confidential operations manual. financial statements. list of current franchisees and franchisess. list of franchisees who have left the system franchisee disclosure. franchise compliance questionnaire. multi state specific addenda franchise agreement the item the franchisor and any parents predecessors and affiliates painting llc franchise agreement with exhibits is attached to this disclosure document as exhibit. exhibit is miscellaneous information territory defined exhibit is personal covenants exhibit is internet website and listings agreement exhibit is telephone listing agreement exhibit is franchisee information exhibit is guaranty agreement exhibit is general release item the franchisor and any parents predecessors and affiliates the franchisorto simplify the language in this disclosure document the words we our and us refer to paintingpainting llc the franchisor of this business. the words you and your yourself or franchisee refer to the person who buys the unit franchisefranchise whether you are an individual or a corporation limited liability company or other legal entity. if you are a corporation limited liability company or other business entity certain provisions of this disclosure documentyou also apply tomay mean your owners and will be noted. the franchisor painting llc is a limited liability company formed in the state of delaware on april. our principal place of business is peter jefferson parkway suite charlottesville virginia we do business only under our corporate name and the name painting. as of december there were painting franchises in the. and one in canada. our agents for service of process are listed in exhibit to this disclosure document. the name and address of our agent for service of process in delaware is united states corporation agents incorporated delaware avenue suite wilmington delaware our parent predecessorspredecessor and affiliates our parent we are owned by premium service brands llc psb a delaware entity formed on january with its principal place of business at peter jefferson parkway suite charlottesville virginia. psb does not offer franchises in any line of business and does not provide products or services directly to our franchisees but our training program the call center services our internally prepared marketing and technology services are provided by psb personnel who are leased to us based on an allocated share of their costs. our predecessors are painting incorporated professional painting llc and painting prosody llc. our predecessor painting incorporated was a virginia entity formed on april with its principal place of business located at. columbus street alexandria virginia all franchise agreements under painting incorporated were transferred to painting llc soon after painting llc was formed on april. painting incorporated offered painting franchisees from until april when the franchise agreements were transferred to painting llc. painting incorporated was not involved in any other line of business. professional painting llc was a delaware limited liability company which operated a business similar to those provided by painting businesses in the washington. area during and under the name professional painting. professional painting llc was located at duke street suite alexandria virginia. professional painting llc did not operate any other type of business. in october of the assets of professional painting llc were transferred to painting incorporated in march painting incorporated purchased of the assets of painting prosody llc a north carolina entity which had operated a painting business for six years. painting prosody was a franchise system that offered residential and commercial painting services similar to the services we presently offer. painting prosody llc did not operate any other type of business. painting prosody principal business address was stormy pointe court denver north carolina by december all painting prosody franchisees offered services under painting incorporated our affiliates. our affiliate companies are pro lift doors franchise llc handyman pro llc maid right llc and kitchen wise llc pro pro lift doors franchise llc pro lift doors is a franchise businessthe franchisor of businesses that offersoffer and sellssell a full range of residential and commercial overhead garage services under the trademark name pro lift garage doors. pro lift doors. pro lift principal place of business is the same as ours. pro lift has been offering franchises since september. pro lift does not offer franchises in any other line of business does not engage in any other line of business and does not own or operate any businesses similar to the one it franchises. as of december there were pro lift franchises in the. our affiliate maid right llc maid right is the franchisor of businesses that offer and sell residential cleaning and related services. maid right principal place of business is the same as ours. maid right has been offering franchises since april. pro lift doorspsb acquired substantially all of the assets of maid right franchising llc mrf a delaware limited liability company on april. mrf offered master franchises under the maid right name which agreements were assumed by maid right as part of the acquisition. maid right does not offer franchises in any other line of business does not engage in any other line of business and does not own or operate any businesses similar to the one it franchises. as of december there were pro lift doors maid right master franchises in the. and maid right had unit franchises. our affiliate handyman pro llc handyman pro llc handyman pro is a franchise business that offers and sells a full range of is the franchisor of businesses that handyman services for both exterior and interior portions of residences and light commercial buildings. handyman pro principal place of business is the same as ours. handyman pro has beenbegan offering franchises sincein april. handyman pro does not offer franchises in any other line of business does not engage in any other line of business and does not own or operate any businesses similar to the one it franchises. as of december there were zero handyman pro franchises in the. and one in canada. our affiliate maid right llc maid right is a franchise business that offers and sells residential cleaning and related services. maid right has been offering franchises since april. our parent company acquired substantially all of the assets of maid right franchising llc a delaware limited liability company on april. maid right does not offer franchises in any other line of business does not engage in any other line of business and does not own or operate any businesses similar to the one it franchises. as of december there were maid right franchises in the. our affiliate kitchen wise llc kitchen wise is a franchise businessthe franchisor of businesses that markets designs sellsmarket design sell and installsinstall custom products and shelving for kitchen and bathroom cabinets and closets. kitchen wise principal place of business is the same as ours. kitchen wise has been offering franchises since october. our parent company psb acquired substantially all of the assets of kitchen wise llc a wisconsin limited liability company on october. kitchen wise does not offer franchises in any other line of business does not engage in any other line of business and does not own or operate any businesses similar to the one it franchises. as of december there were kitchen wise franchises in the. our affiliate renew crew llc renew crew is the franchisor of businesses that offer a full offering of cleaning restoration and protection services for exterior surfaces. renew crew principal place of business is the same as ours. psb acquired substantially all of the assets of renew crew franchising corporation rcfc a delaware corporation on january. renew crew has been offering franchises since january. renew crew does not offer franchises in any other line of business does not engage in any other line of business and does not own or operate any businesses similar to the one it franchises. as of december there were kitchen wise renew crew franchises in the. renew crew franchisees had signed franchise agreements but had not yet opened and renew crew businesses were owned and operated by an affiliate of rcfc. our business the franchise offered painting llc grants unit franchises we grant franchises to qualified individuals and business entities to establish and operate businesses in conjunction with the service markhome based mobile businesses that provide a full range of painting and wall finishing services for both exterior and interior portions of residences and light commercial buildings under the name painting and certain other trademarks service marks trade names and logos and trademarkswe designate from time to time collectively referred to as the marks. we refer to the paintingpainting business you will operate as a unit franchisee as the franchised business. we and our predecessor painting incorporated have offeredbusiness or simply your business. we began offering franchises since september in october. we do not offer and have not previously offered franchises in any other line of business. furthermore we we do not operate or own any businesses similar to the franchised business. from august to december you will identify and solicit customers for your painting business and we granted regional development rightsare not obligated to qualified individuals and business entitiesprovide customers or accounts to solicit and recruit unit franchisees for theyou. painting system. the unit franchise opportunitypainting businesses are typically operated from a van or truck and a home office. you must operate your painting under the terms of a franchise agreement franchise agreement. copy of our current form franchise agreement is the sole business opportunity offered pursuantattached as exhibit to this disclosure document and. the geographic area granted to you under the franchise agreement is referred to herein as a painting business.the protected territory. your painting must offer only authorized services and products we specify or authorize. we have the right to add modify or delete any services or products that you must offer or sell in your painting at any time. painting unit franchises are businesses that provide residential and commercial painting services. the prototypical painting unit franchise offers a full range of painting decorating and wall finishing services for both exterior and interior portions of residences and light commercial buildings. each painting businesspainting must operate in accordance with our system. the distinguishing characteristics of the system include among other things uniform standards and procedures for business operations and management procedures and strategies for marketing advertising and promotions signage vehicle wrapping inventory and materials methods and techniques for paintingcleaning restoring and wall finishing protecting exterior surfaces methods and techniques for inventory and cost control the marks the operations manual uniform standards specifications and procedures record keeping accounting billing collections and account management all of which are designed to enhance the business and managerial aspects of residential and commercialthe painting and wall finishing services business. we reserve the right to offer special incentive programs at any time in the future which may decrease any of the fees listed in items and of this disclosure document. generally these incentive programs will be conditioned upon you executing a franchise agreement or opening your store by a specified date and may only be available for specific stores or in specified markets which we determine in our sole discretion. we may alter or discontinue these programs at any time in our sole discretion without notice to you. these incentive programs may not be combined with any other offer or program unless indicated by us in writing. furthermore if you have executed a franchise agreement before the dates specified for the incentive programs acquired a painting location from an existing franchisee via a transfer or are renewing an existing franchise agreement you are not eligible to receive the incentive program. general description of the market and competition our concept is targeted towards any residential or commercial real estate owners who are looking for quality interior or exterior painting and wall finishing services. as a unit franchisee you will compete in a developed market with local businesses as well as regional or national chains of businesses offering similar services and products similar to the franchised business that offer residential or commercial painting services to the public including contractors that focus generally on home design and renovation. regulations specific to the industry as a painting and wall finishing services contractor unit franchiseesyou may be required to obtain a contractor license in certain states. you should investigate whether this requirement will apply to your franchised business. additionally federal state and local laws rules regulations and ordinances may apply to the operation of a painting unit franchisepainting including those which a establish general standards specifications and requirements for the construction design and maintenance of real property improvements set standards pertaining to employee health and safety and regulateprotect the environment by for example regulating disposal of wastewater airborne concentrations of lead lead paint removal and disposal of hazardous chemicals and waste. you should investigate whether there are regulations and requirements that may apply in the geographic area in which you are interested in locating a painting businesspainting and you should consider both their effect and the cost of compliance. laws and regulations vary widely from place to place. you should consult an advisor in your area to determine all applicable laws and regulations. you must obtain all contractor permits and licenses and operational licenses. we are not required to provide any guidance in compliance with these laws and regulations and any guidance that is provided is not guaranteed. you should consult with your attorney concerning these and other laws regulations and ordinances that may affect the operation of the franchised business. you are solely responsible for investigating and complying with all of these applicable laws regulations and other requirements despite any advice or information that we may give you. we have not specifically researched any of these laws in your state and locality to determine their applicability to your franchised business. item business experience you must also comply with all provisions of the united states of america usa or patriot act and executive order. in addition you must comply with all federal state and local laws that apply to businesses generally including the americans with disabilities act building and construction laws and codes health and sanitation permits and waste disposal. you are responsible for complying with all applicable laws and regulations. you should consult with state and local agencies and your attorney concerning these and other laws regulations and ordinances that may affect the operation of the franchised business. you should research these requirements before you invest. item business experience chief executive officer paul flick mister flick has served as the chief executive officer of painting llc at our headquarters in charlottesville virginia and its since our inception in april. prior to that time mister flick had been the ceo of our predecessor painting incorporated since its inception in april. mister flick has also served as the ownerchief executive officer of our parent company premium service brands llc since at its creationheadquarters in charlottesville virginia since january. mister operating out of flick also serves as the chief executive officer of our affiliated companies maid right llc at its headquarters in charlottesville virginia since april handyman pro llc at its headquarters in charlottesville virginia since april kitchen wise llc at its headquarters in charlottesville virginia since september renew crew llc at its headquarters in charlottesville virginia since january and pro lift doors franchise llc at its headquarters in charlottesville virginia since september. vp of painting brand lead joel gotshall mister gotshall has been our brand lead also known as vice president of painting in charlottesville virginia since august. mister gotshall joined premium service brands the parent company of painting in from october as to august mister gotshall served as a franchise business coach. prior to for us and our parent premium service brands llc in charlottesville virginia. mister joelgotshall worked for college pro painters from january until october in west lafayette indiana. there where he ran a franchise for years followed by years as a general manager. vp of franchise development jeff powell mister powell has served as the vp of franchise development of premium service brands llc since january. from march to january of jeff served as the chief development officer for inxpress llc a shipping and logistics franchise located in south jordan utah prior to that from january to february he was the franchise recruitment director and vice president of franchise recruitment at pillar to post home inspectors. director of training josh hoffman mister hoffmann is the director of training for premium service brands llc and has been with premium service brands llc since february. previously mister hoffmann worked for college pro painters in a number of positions sincefrom june to february which included being the franchise owner operator of the street charles illinois location as well as the kansas city month location. vp of franchise development matt reeves mister reeves joined premium service brands in november as vice president of franchise development. from to he was vice president of development at neighborly brands in waco texas. mister reeves was also president of development for restoration and bluefrog plumbing in and also in waco texas. vp of franchise development john mclellan mister mclellan has served as vice president of franchise development of premium service brands llc since october. from to he was a franchise consultant with frannet which was based in chicago illinois and is currently based in detroit michigan. vice president of operations david raymond mister raymond joined premium service brands in july as vice president of operations. from october to june mister raymond was vice president of our affiliated company pro lift garage doors in charlottesville virginia. from february to october mister raymond was president of doorability incorporated in tampa florida. mister raymond was a senior franchise business consultant at college hunks hauling junk and moving from august to december in tampa florida. he held various positions ending as the general manager of discount garage doors incorporated located in tampa florida from to. vice president of brand performance dave rychley mister item litigation litigation against franchisees in last fiscal year lawsuit for breach and violation of royalties and non competition provisions of franchise agreement rychley has been the vice president of brand performance for psb in charlottesville virginia since january. from january to november mister rychley was employed by paul davis restoration in jacksonville florida first as vice president operations january to december and then as vice president brand performance january to november. from september to december mister rychley served as president of college pro painters in lombard illinois. vp of marketing samantha lin mississippi lin has been vp of marketing of psb in charlottesville virginia since february. from june to april mississippi lin served as a social media strategist for psb. since april mississippi lin has also served as executive director of psb kids lift program in charlottesville virginia. from august to march mississippi lin was a social media strategist for longbeard in rome italy. mississippi lin was a guide for the thomas jefferson foundation in charlottesville virginia from to september. from august to august mississippi lin was a jesuit volunteer for the catholic charities refugee resettlement program in chicago illinois. chief development officer luke schulte mister schulte has been the chief development officer of psb since may in charlottesville virginia. from december to may mister schulte was vice president of franchise development for us and our affiliate pro lift in charlottesville virginia. between january and december mister schulte held the position of director of franchise development for two maids a mop in birmingham alabama. from october to january mister schulte was franchise development manager for fish window cleaning in street louis missouri. general counsel patrick maslyn mister maslyn has been general counsel to premium service brands llc in charlottesville virginia since december. from june to november mister maslyn was counsel for the law firm of kaufman canoles. in richmond virginia. mister maslyn was founder of maslyn law plc in moseley virginia from october to and march to june. mister maslyn was also associated with drumm law llc in arvada colorado from april to may. from october to march mister maslyn served as president of the foundry system llc a start up home services franchisor in richmond virginia. item litigation the following litigation relates to us or our affiliate pro lift doors franchise llc pending litigation deborah carreno. painting llc et alabama district court southern district of california case number cove lab bgs. on november a former painting franchisee brought an action against painting and other unnamed defendants alleging breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing negligent misrepresentation intentional misrepresentation unjust enrichment and unfair business practices. generally plaintiff claims that its difficulty in obtaining state licensing required to operate the franchised business constituted a default by painting of its responsibility to support plaintiff in opening and operating the franchised business. plaintiff also claims that painting was obligated to provide advertising materials which were specifically adapted to california requirements. plaintiff also claims that painting failed to provide sufficient field training. plaintiff seeks unspecified compensatory and special damages litigations costs and other relief. painting filed a motion to dismiss plaintiff claims for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and unjust enrichment on december which the court granted on march. painting denies the plaintiff remaining allegations and has filed a counterclaim on march seeking damages resulting from plaintiff breach of the franchise agreement. plaintiff has moved for leave to amend its complaint which motion was pending as of the date of this disclosure document. this case is in the pretrial phase. litigation against franchisees in last fiscal year post termination royalties non competition suits painting incorporated james dorff and painting of ohio llc circuit court for albemarle county virginia number club filing date december. casethe case was dismissed on december. prior actions painting llc. sterling enterprises incorporated and robert sterling circuit court for albemarle county virginia case number filing date november. painting llc filed a motion to non suit on january. pro lift doors franchise llc. baus and kim micheloni circuit court for albemarle county virginia case club filing date may. the parties entered into a settlement agreement on july. pro lift obtained an order from the court on september enforcing the settlement agreement. prior actions leslie owens brown et alabama painting incorporated and paul flick case calendar circuit court for prince george county maryland. in plaintiff brought an action against painting incorporated and paul flick alleging that painting incorporated sold an unregistered franchise to plaintiff in the state of maryland. the parties entered into a consent order dated october wherein painting paid leslie brown the franchise fee costs and attorney fees without conceding the allegations in the complaint. mmg llc et alabama paul flick home service franchising incorporated painting llc maintenance made simple llc et alabama case number cove court of common pleas cuyahoga county ohio. on april plaintiff brought an action against defendants alleging fraud in the inducement and seeking refund of plaintiff purchase price in a transaction in which plaintiff entities purchased assets of defendant entities for which transactions were rescinded shortly after their occurrence fraud and breach of contract based on the rescission or settlement agreement entered into between plaintiffs and defendants in which plaintiffs agreed to accept from defendants in full re paymentrepayment of the original purchase price paid by plaintiffs and seeking declaratory judgment that certain ancillary agreements were canceled and terminated and that exclusive control over plaintiff entities revert to plaintiff merry meeting incorporated plaintiffs and defendants filed cross motions for summary judgment. plaintiff summary judgment motion was granted control over plaintiffs mmg llc mmg mms llc and mmg mc llc is returned to plaintiff merrymeeting incorporated governmental actions governmental actions in the matter of painting llc.a painting incorporated and paul flick administrative proceeding before the securities commissioner of maryland case number as modified by order modifying consent order dated january. on or about february the securities division of the office of the attorney general of the state of maryland initiated an investigation into the franchise related activities of painting llc and paul flick. on august we entered into a consent order with the securities commissioner pursuant to which we agreed without admitting or denying any of the commissioner statements of fact or conclusions of law except as to the commissioner jurisdiction in the proceeding to immediately and permanently cease and desist from the offer and sale of franchises in violation of the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law to promptly file with the securities division and diligently pursue the completion of an initial application to register our franchise offering in maryland and to send offers of rescission to two maryland franchisees offering them the right to rescission of their painting franchise agreements and to obtain a refund of initial franchise fees. pursuant to the order modifying consent order dated january the consent order was modified so that painting was not required to register its painting franchise offering in maryland as long as no offers or sales of painting franchises were made in maryland or to any maryland residents. in the consent order the commissioner concluded that we had violated and of the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law by offering and selling franchises in maryland and to maryland residents while not registered to offer and sell franchises in maryland and using a franchise disclosure document that failed to set forth all information the securities division requires to be included in a maryland registered franchise disclosure document under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law and maryland franchise regulations. specifically the commissioner found that in the franchise disclosure documents distributed to the maryland franchisees we had failed to disclose the lawsuit filed by leslie owens brown referenced immediately above in item of the franchise disclosure documents. we have corrected this error. the two maryland franchisees accepted the rescission offer. in the matter of painting llc number avc folio investigation by illinois attorney general office. in january the illinois attorney general office began an investigation of potential violations of the illinois franchise disclosure act by painting regarding its failure to obtain a signed illinois amendment to the franchise agreement for illinois franchises between april and december. painting did not contest that illinois amendments were not executed by illinois franchisees during this period but asserted that a each illinois franchisee received a properly registered franchise disclosure document including an addendum to the disclosures and an amendment to the franchise agreement containing modifications required by illinois law and because each franchisee received the required disclosures the failure to obtain executed amendments from each franchisee could not have affected the franchisees decision to purchase the franchise. the illinois attorney general asserted that because painting brought suit against an illinois franchisee in virginia before unilaterally dismissing the case by filing a motion to non suit illinois franchisees were harmed. on may painting entered into an assurance of voluntary compliance avc under which painting agreed to offer affected franchisees the opportunity to rescind their franchise agreements make a payment to the state disclose the avc in its disclosure document and comply with the illinois franchise disclosure act in the future. other than these actions no litigation is required to be disclosed in this disclosure document. item. item bankruptcy in re maslyn case number krh. bankr. court. virginia richmond division psb general counsel patrick maslyn of arwen mews moseley virginia and whose principal business address is peter jefferson parkway charlottesville virginia filed for bankruptcy protection under chapter on august. plan of reorganization was confirmed by the court on october. except bankruptcy no bankruptcies areas described above no bankruptcy is required to be disclosed in this item. item initial fees item initial fees franchise fee the initial franchise fee franchise fee for a painting unit franchisepainting franchised business is which. the franchise fee is payable by wire transfer and generally must be paid to us in one lump sum upon signingexecution of the franchise agreement. this fee is charged for a license to operate from one location in a specific residential territory calledif you obtain third party sba financing the protected territory. see item. the franchise fee is uniformly calculated for all franchisees under this offering. all initial fees described above are fully earned when terms of that financing may require that you pay a portion of the franchise fee typically upon execution of the franchise agreement and the remainder typically be paid and are after receiving funding. the franchise fee is not refundable under any circumstances. veteran discount we reserve the right to offer special incentive programs at any time which may decrease any of the fees listed in this item. generally these incentive programs will be conditioned upon you executing a franchise agreement and may only be available for specific unit franchises or in specified markets which we determine at our sole discretion. we may alter or discontinue these programs at any time at our sole discretion without notice to you. if you have executed a franchise agreement before the dates specified for the incentive programs acquired a unit franchise from an existing franchisee via a transfer or are renewing an existing franchise agreement you are not eligible to participate in the incentive program unless otherwise indicated by us in writing. during our fiscal year we offered a specialan incentive program for. military veterans purchasingwho purchase a new franchised business. under this program we offeredoffer honorably discharged veterans a discount on the initial franchise fee. fourteen franchisees took advantage of this discountfranchise fee. first responder discount we offer an incentive program for certain first responders who purchase a new franchised business. under this program we offer certain former emergency services personnel a discount on the franchise fee. stacking discount if you already own and operate an existing franchise in a franchise system owned by us or one of our affiliates and you are in compliance with the terms of your franchise agreement we may offer you a discount on the franchise fee. discounts may not be combined. the maximum discount we offer is of the franchise fee. in the range of the actual franchise fees paid by new franchisees was to. initial technology fee there is you must pay to us an initial technology fee of which must be paid to us in one lump sum upon signing the franchise agreement. remainder the initial technology fee is not refundable. in the range of page intentionally left blank the actual initial technology fees paid by new franchisees was to. item item other fees other fees column type of fee column amount column due date column remarks royalty fees of gross sales weekly on tuesday based on the previous week gross sales. royalty minimum royalty of gross sales you must pay us a minimum royalty of per month after week beginning on earlier of a the date you begin presales even if the franchised business has no business revenueoperations or months after the effective date. weekly on tuesday based on the previous week gross sales. the minimum royaltyminimum royalty amount increases each year in years through year. see franchise agreement section week year week year week year. week year and later week breaching royaltiesroyalty fees of gross sales increase of of gross sales weekly on tuesday if you are in breach of the franchisefranchise agreement and fail to cure the breach within the required time period we may charge you royalties at this increased rate until you cure the breach or we terminate the agreement. see franchise agreement. taxes amount required to reimburse us for certain taxes imposed on payments to us upon demand if your payments to us are taxed except as in income tax you must pay us an increased royalty so that the net payment to us is equal to the amount that we would have received without the tax. marketing fund contribution of gross sales weekly on tuesday in the future we may require marketing fund contributions to be used in cooperative advertising. minimum local upon as invoiced you pay directly subject to our advertising grand opening and in by suppliers approval. see franchise agreement section. we may column type of fee column amount column due date column remarks each quarter require local advertising through end of expenditures to be used in year term. cooperative advertising. job proposal estimating software as determined by vendor currently per month paid to a road party we specify as invoiced by supplier see item for details section. of franchise agreement. call center fee per week or of gross sales whichever is greater. up to per week. weekly on tuesday inbound outbound call service to handle leads see item for details section. of franchise agreement. weekly technology fee initial fee of. and. per week weekly on tuesday website and software development and email address see item for details section. of franchise agreement audit all costs and expenses associated with audit upon demand audit costs payable only if the audit shows an understatement of gross sales of at least late fees and insufficient funds fees plus. per month or the highest rate allowed by law whichever is less upon demand interest also applies to any amount due revealed by an audit. late report fees per report per week upon demand if you do not submit a required report by the required deadline you must pay a late fee of for each report for each week the report is late. hardware and software fees currently reasonable fee charged by us upon demand if we determine that any accounting pos or other system computer hardware or software fees must be paid to us you must pay us a reasonable fee. this is in addition to the weekly technology fee above. local advertising up to of gross sales per month upon demand if you do not make the minimum required expenditures on local advertising we may spend up to of your gross sales on your behalf and you must reimburse us for those expenditures. column type of fee column amount column due date column remarks advertising cooperative fee determined by members of the cooperative but not more than or of gross sales per year whichever is greater. upon demand there is no voting power of franchisor owned outlets on these fees. approval of products or suppliers all reasonable costs of evaluation which is per hour time of evaluation applies to new suppliers you wish to purchase from or products you wish to purchase that we have not previously approved. insurance policies amount of unpaid premiums plus our reasonable expenses in obtaining the policies upon demand payable only if you fail to maintain required insurance coverage and we elect to obtain coverage for you. renewal fee greater of of our then current initial franchise fee or prior to expiration transfer fee at the time of transfer warranty service after transfer our cost plus after transfer upon demand if you transfer the business and are unable or fail to perform service on warranties you issued as a franchisee you must reimburse us our cost to perform the work plus an administrative charge of. transfer expenses our expenses at the time of transfer upon demand if you transfer the business to an entity you control entirely you will not have to pay a transfer fee but you must pay us the reasonable expenses and charges we incur in connection with facilitating that transfer. customer service per call received by the call center upon demand applies to call related to appointments you miss or customer complaints. additional assistance training rates as published in the manual currently per day plus our expenses time of assistance you pay for additional operations or training assistance if you request it. column type of fee column amount column due date column remarks annual convention attendance fee varies january annual convention attendance fee was per attendee or for a double booking. if you do not attend. upon demand attendance fee varies depending on convention location. conference fees currently hour. time of program you must pay your expenses as well as your managers expenses in attending periodic conferences. we may charge a reasonable fee to cover costs and expenses of the conference. cost of enforcement all costs and expenses including attorneys fees upon demand you must reimburse us for all costs and expenses incurred as a result of your failure to fulfill any obligations under the franchise agreement. indemnification all damages and costs including attorneys fees upon demand you must defend lawsuits at your cost and hold us harmless against lawsuits arising from your operation of the franchised business. management fee of gross sales after your default upon demand if you default we may take over operation of the business until you cure the default and you must pay us a management fee in addition to the fees you would otherwise pay. warranty assurance on termination or expiration to ensure that any customer warranties you issued during the term are honored you must post a bond in an amount equal to. of your gross sales for the months before termination or expiration or if the amount of the bond would be less than pay us. column type of fee column amount column due date column remarks liquidated damages or the average monthly royalty fees and marketing fees paid during the months before termination multiplied by the lesser of or the number of remaining full months in the term. on termination type of fee amount due date remarks high speed internet access fee as determined by vendor as invoiced by vendor high speed internet connection through dsl or cable modem audit all costs and expenses associated with audit upon demand audit costs payable only if the audit shows an understatement in amounts due of at least see section. of franchise agreement late fees. per month or the highest rate allowed by law whichever is less upon demand applies to all overdue royalty fees call center fees technology fees marketing fund contributions and amounts overdue to our affiliates or us. see section. of franchise agreement also applies to any amount due revealed by an audit. see section. approval of products or suppliers all reasonable costs of evaluation which is per hour time of evaluation applies to new suppliers you wish to purchase from or products you wish to purchase that we have not previously approved. see item insurance policies amount of unpaid premiums plus our reasonable expenses in obtaining the policies upon demand payable only if you fail to maintain required insurance coverage and we elect to obtain coverage for you. see item and section. of franchise agreement renewal fee of our then current initial franchise fee if charged by franchisor at the time of renewal prior to expiration of the then current term payable if you elect and we approve you to enter into a renewal franchise agreement upon expiration of the franchise agreement. see section. of franchise agreement transfer fee at the time of transfer does not apply to an assignment upon the death or disability of franchisee see section. of the franchise agreement customer service all costs incurred in assisting your customers which is per hour upon demand you must reimburse us if we determine it is necessary for us to provide services directly to your customers. see section. of franchise agreement type of fee amount due date remarks additional operations assistance rates as published in the manual currently per day plus our expenses time of assistance you pay for additional operations assistance if you request it. see section of franchise agreement conferences and conventions you must pay your expenses as well as your managers expenses in attending conferences. we may also charge a reasonable fee per hour to cover costs and expenses of the convention or conference. time of program see section. of franchise agreement. annual conventions are mandatory and scheduled in advance based on all franchisees attending. franchisees who do not attend are subject to a annual convention fee. cost of enforcement all costs including attorneys fees upon demand you must reimburse us for all costs incurred as a result of your failure to fulfill any obligations under the franchise agreement. see section of franchise agreement indemnification all damages and costs including attorneys fees upon demand you must defend lawsuits at your cost and hold us harmless against lawsuits arising from your operation of the franchised business. see section. of franchise agreement notes. gross sales. the term gross sales means the total of all monies and receipts derived by franchisee for purposes of this paragraph inclusive of franchisee owners and officers as well as any business entity through which the franchised business is operated from the sale of products or servicesyou derive in connection with the franchised business and from all other business using the marks whether evidenced by cash credit check gift certificate gift card script or other property or services including without limitation all proceeds received from any business interruption insurance policy and. gross sales also include all commissions finder fees referral fees construction management fees or other compensation received by franchiseeyou receive arising in any way from the operations of the franchised business. gross sales does not include i promotional allowances or rebates paid to franchisee in connection with its purchase of products or supplies ii sales use merchants or other taxes measured on the basis of the gross revenues of the franchised business imposed by governmental authorities directly on sales or use and collected from customers provided thatif the taxes are added to the selling price of franchiseesyour goods and services and are in fact paid by franchiseeyou to the appropriate governmental authorities or iii the value of any coupons duly issued and approved by franchisoryou or any bona fide discounts or customer refunds approved by franchisor.us. if any state imposes any sales or use taxes on the royalty fees then we have a right to collect this sales and use tax from you. all costs and fees set forth in item are current as of the issuance date of this franchise disclosure document. the current amount of all costs and fees shall be set forth in our manual. except. except as otherwise noted in this item all fees are uniformly imposed and non refundable. except for insurance premiums and as otherwise noted in this item all feefees are payable to and imposed and collected by us. we reserve the right to offer special incentive programs at any time which may decrease any of the fees listed in this item. generally these incentive programs will be conditioned upon you executing a franchise agreement and may only be available for specific unit franchises or in specified markets which we determine at our sole discretion. we note that in we offered a veterans discount of. we may alter or discontinue these programs at any time at our sole discretion without notice to you. if you have executed a franchise agreement before the dates specified for the incentive programs acquired a unit franchise from an existing franchisee via a transfer or are renewing an existing franchise agreement you are not eligible to participate in the incentive program unless otherwise indicated by us in writing. item your estimated initial investment item estimated initial investment your estimated initial investment column type of expendituresexpenditure column amount column method of payment column when due column to whom payment is to be is made franchise fee wire transfer upon signing franchise agreement paintingus vehicle as arranged before beginning operations lessor real estate and or leasehold improvements as arranged before beginning operations third parties or landlord non office equipment supplies as arranged before beginning operations third parties approved suppliers insurance as arranged before beginning operations third parties signage as arranged before beginning operations third parties approved suppliers job proposal estimating computer software as arranged first month of operationbefore beginning operations third party approved suppliers us and vendors office equipment supplies as arranged before beginning operations third parties approved suppliers technology fee as arranged before beginning operations us localgrand opening advertising as arranged quarterly before beginning with operations and first month months of operations third parties or painting as applicable training expenses as arranged before beginning operations third parties your estimated initial investment column type of expendituresexpenditure column amount column method of payment column when due column to whom payment is to be is made business licenses or bonds as arranged before beginning operation licensing authorities professional fees as arranged as necessary third parties additional funds months as arranged as necessary you determine total your estimated initial investment type of expenditures amount method of payment when due to whom payment is to be made total notes. franchise fee. the franchise fee is described in greater detail in item of this disclosure document. all expenditures are non refundable unless specifically noted otherwise. vehicle. assumes one leased vehicle. this estimate assumes you will lease one vehicle typically a truck or work van. we have the right specify requirements relating to the vehicle make and model of vehicles used by the business but have not done so as of the date of this disclosure document. the estimate does not include mandatory vehicle wrapping or other signage see. see note below. if you decide to purchase one or more vehicles your costs will likely be higher. leasehold improvements. you may need to make improvements to a home office. it is assumed that you will operate the franchised business from a home office you will make the decision as to when and if to open an office outside your home and therefore we do not provide estimates relating to the costs to develop an outside office. insurance. requirements are described in greater detail in section. of the franchise agreement. factors that may affect your cost of insurance include the value and age of your equipment number of employees your safety record and record of workers compensation claims record of liability claims and driving record. signage. this range includes the cost of all signage used in the franchised business including a fully wrapped sales vehicle and lawn signs et cetera the signage requirements and costs will vary based upon the size and location of the franchised business local zoning requirements and local wage rates for installation among other things. job proposal estimating software. you will use software from a third party vendor we specify. our approved vendor for software currently charges. per month. see item for further details. office equipment and supplies. you must purchase general office supplies including stationery business cards and typical office equipment including telephones computers monitors and printers. factors that may affect your cost of office equipment and supplies include local market conditions the size of the premises suppliers and other factors. technology fee. there is a one time technology fee payable to us prior to commencing operations. in addition there is a weekly technology fee of. due after operations commence. local advertising. you must spend at least in the first three months of operation for local advertising. you must prove your expenditures on local advertising through receipts if requested. we must approve all local advertising before published. training. you are not charged an additional fee for initial training but you must pay for transportation meals lodging and other incidentals while attending training. the total cost will vary depending on the number of people attending how far you travel and the type of accommodations you choose. furthermore this estimate does not include a salary for you or your employees during training. business licenses or bonds. local government agencies typically charge fees for construction permits occupancy permits and operating licenses among other things. your actual costs may vary based on the requirements of local government agencies. professional fees. we recommend that you have a minimum amount of money available to cover any legal or accounting fees that you may incur in establishing the franchised business. your actual costs may vary based on the complexity of services needed. additional funds. we recommend that you have a minimum amount of money available to cover operating expenses including employees salaries for the first three months that the franchised business is open. this estimate does not include a salary for the designated manager. we cannot guarantee that this recommendation will be sufficient and additional working capital may be required if sales are low or operating costs are high. you should ensure that you have sufficient personal resources to cover your expenses during this period. total. in compiling this chart we relied on our ceo industry experience of years and our predecessor experience in franchising painting businesses similar to the one offered in this franchise disclosure document. the amounts shown are estimates only and may vary for many reasons including the size of your home office the number of vehicles you choose to lease or buy the capabilities of your management team where you locate your franchised business and your business experience and acumen. you should review these estimates carefully with an accountant or other business advisor before making any decision to buy a franchise. these figures are estimates only and we cannot guarantee that you will not have additional expenses in starting the. real estate and or leasehold improvements. we expect that you will operate the business from a home office. you may need to make improvements to a home office. franchised business. item restrictions on sources of products and services in that case the costs to make those improvements will typically be about or less. if local laws rules ordinances or neighborhood covenants do not permit the operation of the business from your home or if you decide to locate your office outside of your home your real estate costs will likely be higher. locations for offices are typically in an industrial or commercial office park. the amount reflects the amount of lease payments for the first three months that you operate the business. lease payments vary considerably depending upon regional and local factors and the type of lease negotiated by you. lease payments for a typical small office lease usually range from to per month depending upon the size location and market demand for the property. the rate may be higher for a metropolitan area. landlords typically require that one month rent be paid prior to taking possession and may require an amount equal to one month rent as a security deposit. the high estimate contained in the table above assumes that one month rent and a security deposit are required to be paid before opening. non office equipment supplies. you may need certain equipment or supplies that are specifically related to services you will offer. you may wish to have several ladders drop cloths paint brushes rollers rags and other painting tools. except as indicated below you are not required to purchase or lease products or services from us or from suppliers approved by us or under our specifications. call center technology services the call center answers all inbound calls either through the local number or the. it also performs out bound calling when there is a lead submitted through the website home advisors. the customer service representative will take the call and schedule the estimate. the technology fee covers website maintenance and administrative duties with the assignment of an email address. as of the date of this disclosure document the only type of goods or services for which we or any of our affiliates are an approved supplier is the call center technology features of the franchise business. job proposal estimating software you must use our approved supplier for software we use in conjunction with operating your business. the software fee will entitle two users to gain access to the software. this software will assist in completing job proposals. you may purchase other software to assist your business. this will assist in completing job proposals. approved suppliers standards and specifications you may operate your painting business from your home provided that you equipment your home office with a high speed internet connection that is always on such as dsl or cable modem and that you make adequate provisions for storage of equipment and supplies at or near your home. you also may choose to operate your painting business from an office outside of your home see item of this disclosure document for more information on this option. you must maintain furnish and equipment your painting business and all vehicles according to our standards and specifications which we will make available to you. all products supplies vehicles equipment and tools signs and other products or materials for use or sale in your painting business must meet our specifications and quality standards and if required by us shall be purchased only from an approved supplier which may be us an affiliate or another supplier we designate. we will provide in the manual or by other written or electronic form a list of items you will need to purchase for resale or to operate your painting business and if required a list of approved suppliers for some or all of these items and periodically we may revise this list. our specifications may include minimum standards for performance design appearance and quality. we formulate and modify our specifications and standards for products and services based on the industry knowledge and experience of our company ceo paul flick. currently our approved suppliers that are not affiliated with us are sherwin williams paint supplies ppg coatings paint supplies and home advisors listing of services. if you would like to use any item or service in establishing or operating your painting business that we have not approved for items or services that require supplier approval you must first send us sufficient information specifications and or samples for us to determine whether the item or service complies with our standards and specifications or the supplier meets our approved supplier criteria. we may charge a reasonable fee to you or the prospective supplier in connection with determining whether we will approve an item service or supplier. we will decide within days after receiving the required information whether you may purchase or lease those items or services or from the supplier. we apply the following and other general criteria in approving a proposed supplier the ability to provide sufficient quantity of product quality of products and or services at competitive prices production and delivery capability and dependability and general reputation of the supplier. no franchise officer owns an interest in any supplier. we may review our approval of any item service or supplier at any time. we will notify you if we revoke our approval of an item service or supplier and you must immediately stop purchasing disapproved items or services or must immediately stop purchasing from a disapproved supplier. there currently exist no purchasing or distribution cooperatives relevant to your painting business. we do not provide material benefits to franchisees based on their purchase of particular products or services or use of particular suppliers. insurance you must purchase and maintain in effect during the term of your painting business the types and amounts of insurance specified in the unit franchisee operations manual as appropriate. in addition you must purchase and maintain any other insurance that may be required by applicable law and any lender or lessor. your insurance policies must name us as an additional insured and or loss payee. we do not derive revenue as a result of your purchase of insurance. to satisfy our current insurance requirements under the franchise agreement you must maintainobtain the following insurance policies and minimum coverage amounts comprehensive general liability insurance against claims for bodily and personal injury death and property damage caused by or occurring in conjunction with the operation of the franchised business or franchiseesyour conduct of business pursuant to this agreement with a minimum per occurrence coverage of one million dollars. and general aggregate liability coverage of two million dollars. auto insurance for the vehicles in an amount required by state law products liabilityproperty and casualty insurance with a minimum liability coverage of two million dollars. and workers compensation insurance that complies with the statutory requirements of the state in which the franchised business is located and employer liability coverage with a minimum limit of five hundred thousand dollars. you may have to purchase additional coverage either in dollar limits or types if required by your state laws. factors that may affect your cost of insurance include the value and age of your equipment number of employees your safety record and record of workers compensation claims record of liability claims and driving record. signage. this range includes the cost of all signage used in the business including a fully wrapped sales vehicle and lawn signs et cetera the signage requirements and costs will vary based upon the size and location of the business local zoning requirements and local wage rates for installation among other things. computer software. you will need standard software such as microsoft office. office equipment and supplies. you must purchase general office supplies including stationery business cards and typical office equipment including telephones computers monitors and printers. factors that may affect your cost of office equipment and supplies include local market conditions the size of the premises suppliers and other factors. technology fee. there is a one time technology fee payable to us prior to commencing operations. grand opening. during the days before and days after the opening of the franchised business you must spend a minimum of on grand opening advertising. you may choose to spend more. factors that may affect the actual amount you spend include the type of media used local media cost location of the business customer demographics in the surrounding area and local competition. training. you are not charged an additional fee for initial training but you must pay for transportation meals lodging and other incidentals while attending training. the total cost will vary depending on the number of people attending how far you travel and the type of accommodations you choose. this estimate does not include a salary for you or your employees during training. business licenses or bonds. local government agencies typically charge fees for construction permits occupancy permits and operating licenses among other things. your actual costs may vary based on the requirements of local government agencies. professional fees. we recommend that you have a minimum amount of money available to cover any legal or accounting fees that you may incur in establishing the business. your actual costs may vary based on the complexity of services needed. additional funds. we recommend that you have a minimum amount of money available to cover operating expenses including employees salaries for the first three months that the business is open. this estimate does not include a salary for you or the designated manager. we cannot guarantee that this recommendation will be sufficient and additional working capital may be required if sales are low or operating costs are high. you should ensure that you have sufficient personal resources to cover your expenses during this period. total. in compiling this chart we relied on our experience and the experience of operations staff operating franchise systems of businesses similar to the one offered in this disclosure document. the amounts shown are estimates and may vary for many reasons including the location of your office the number of vehicles you choose to use whether you lease or buy your vehicles the capabilities of your management team the market where your business is located and your business experience and acumen. you should review these estimates carefully with an accountant or other business advisor before making any decision to buy a franchise. these figures are estimates only and we cannot guarantee that you will not have additional expenses in starting the business. item restrictions on sources of products and services you must operate your business according to our system which includes among other things using only certain products and services that we require or products and services that meet our specifications. in some cases we require that you purchase those products and services only from specific vendors and suppliers which may include us or one of our affiliates. we may revise or update the lists of mandatory and approved products and services required vendors and suppliers and standards and specifications from time to time. we estimate that required purchases will be approximately of your purchases of goods and services in establishing your business and to of your purchases of goods and services in operating your business. except as indicated below you are not required to purchase or lease products or services from us from suppliers approved by us or under our standards and specifications. required purchases from specified sources you currently must purchase obtain a license for and or use the following products or services from vendors or suppliers we designate call center services technology services. website set up design keyword optimization business management software set up business management software bookkeeping software bookkeeping services digital marketing and online reputation management. we are currently the only approved supplier for call center services and the technology services described above. you must obtain the required bookkeeping software bookkeeping services and digital marketing from and pay directly third party sources we designate. you must obtain and use business management software and initial digital marketing set up from third party vendors and suppliers we specify and arrange for on your behalf and for which you must pay us. approved products services and vendors we require that certain other products and services that you use in the operation of your business be purchased only from an approved vendor or otherwise meet our standards and specifications. in particular we currently have approved vendors for paint tools and related supplies print marketing materials direct mailing merchant services customer financing job postings payroll services online portals for lead generation background checks insurance and vehicle wraps. but you are not required to purchase from these vendors. you may purchase products or services that we approve as meeting our standards and specifications. there miscellaneous are currently no purchasing or distribution cooperatives. we have negotiated distribution and supply arrangements commissions and group rates for purchases of certain inventory and supplies necessary for the operation of the business. the terms of these arrangements may vary but may include preferential pricing or purchasing terms for franchisees contributions to the marketing fund franchisee training and educational programs provided by the vendor rebates paid to us and or payments to us to support our annual convention or other franchisee meetings. rebates and other financial considerations from vendors may be flat payments or based on the aggregate amount of franchisee purchases. we and our affiliates will derive revenues or other material consideration as a result of required purchases or leases by franchisees. we reserve the right tomay use any payments discounts or other amounts received by us from suppliers lessors or other parties in connection with those arrangements without restriction. we are not required to give you anany accounting of those payments discounts or other amounts or to share the benefit of them with you or other franchisees. any such amounts and benefits shallmay be kept by us as compensation for locating and negotiating with suppliers for you and other franchisees.the system. we do not provide material benefits to franchisees for example renewal of existing franchises or granting of additional franchises based on their use of designated or approved suppliers. we have negotiated distribution alternative products services and supply agreements commissions vendors the standards and group ratesspecifications for purchases of certain inventoryproducts and supplies necessary for services you use in the operation of the franchised business. you and where applicable the vendors approved for those products and services are contained in the operations manual. we may update the operations manual with additional or modified standards and specifications from time to time and you must comply with any additional or modified standard or specification. if you wish to use any product or service that we have not evaluated or to buy all paint suppliesor lease from an approved supplier or thea supplier we designatethat we have not yet approved or designated you must provide us with sufficient information specifications and samples so that we may determine whether the product or service meets our standards and specifications and our supplier criteria. we may charge you or the supplier a reasonable fee for the evaluation and will make our decision within business days. we may establish procedures or requesting approval of additional products and services or vendors and we may limit the number of products services or vendors as we decide it best. supplier approval may depend on product quality delivery capabilities service standards financial capacity customer relations concentration of purchases with limited suppliers to obtain better pricing or purchasing terms warranties incentives provided to us or the system and any other criteria we determine is appropriate. we do not make our criteria for approving vendors available to franchisees. we may revoke our approval of any vendor at any time by providing written notice or updating the operations manual. our we recommend that you purchase all paints from sherwin williams llc. if you choose to do so you must obtain your own account with sherwin williams which will incorporate a discounted pricing schedule that we have negotiated on your behalf. representative of sherwin williams will be available to you during initial training and will coordinate all account openings credit applications and related matters with you. in the interests as noted above we are currently the only supplier for the call center services and technology services. website set up design keyword optimization business management software set up. except for these services neither we nor any of our officers owns an interest in any of our suppliers. during our fiscal year that ended on december we received. we derived. from the call center technology fees that we provide described above and we received rebates from our approved suppliers at rates ranging from. to depending on the supplier. we estimate that approximately of your expenditures for leases and franchisee purchases in establishing your painting unit franchise will be for goods and services that must be purchased either from us an approved supplier or in accordance with our standards and specifications. we estimate that approximately of your expenditures on an ongoing basis will be for goods and services that must be purchased from either us an approved supplier or in accordance with our standards and specifications. and leases which island of our except for the call center technology fees described above the franchisor revenue derived from required purchases and leases by franchisees in the fiscal year ending december was zero. the total revenue of the franchisor in the fiscal year ending december was. as derived from our unaudited financial statements for that period. item franchisee obligations item franchisee obligations this table lists your principal obligations under the franchise and other agreements. it will help you find more detailed information about your obligations in these agreements and in other items of this disclosure document. the section references are to those in the franchise agreement unless otherwise noted. obligation section in agreement disclosure document item a site selection and acquisition lease fa section none. items and. pre opening purchases leases fa section items and. site development and other pre opening requirements fa sectionsections. and items and. initial and ongoing training fa section sections. through. items and. opening fa sectionsections. and item and. fees fa sections and items and. compliance with standards and policies operating manual fa sections. and items and. trademark and proprietary information fa sections and. internet web sites and listings agreement telephone listing agreement items and i restrictions on products services offered fa section items and. warranty and customer service requirements fa sections. and. item. territorial development and sales quotas fa section item. ongoing product service purchases fa sections. and. items and. fees including reduced franchise fees for multiple franchise purchases fa section items and. compliance with standards and policies operating manual fa section and items and. trademark and proprietary information fa section and internet web site agreement interest in internet web sites and listings telephone listing agreement. items and i restrictions on products services offered fa section items and. warranty and customer service requirements fa section item. territorial development and sales quotas fa section none item. ongoing product service purchases fa section items and. maintenance appearance and remodeling requirements fa section item. insurance fa section. items and. advertising fa section internet web site agreement interest in internet web sites and listings agreement telephone listing agreement. items and. indemnification fa section. internet web sitesites and listings agreement indemnification and telephone listing agreement. item. owner participation management staffing fa sectionsections. and item. records and reports fa sectionsections. through. item. inspections and audits fa section. item and. transfer fa section sections and item. renewal fa sectionssection. item. post termination obligations fa section internet web sites and listings agreement telephone listing agreement item. non competition covenants fa section. and. item. dispute resolution fa section item item item financing financing we do not offer direct or indirect financing. we do not guarantee your note lease or obligation. remainder of page intentionally left blank. item franchisor assistance advertising computer systems and training item franchisor assistance advertising computer systems and training except as listed below we are not required to provide you with any assistance. before the franchised business opens pre opening obligations before you open your franchised business we william designate your protected territory as further described in itemitem. franchise agreement section. and exhibit. provide an initial training program of approximately hours of on boarding training hours of on line training hours of classroom training and hours of field training. this training is described in detail later in this itemitem. franchise agreement section. provide to you on loan one copy of the painting operations manual for unit franchisees. which includes among other things employment applications interview questions job descriptions and suggested pay scales. our current operations manual is pages long and the table. the table of contentscontents of theour operations manual is attached as exhibit to this disclosure document. you may also view our operations manual at our offices provided that you sign our nondisclosure agreement regarding that document that is attached as exhibit. as exhibit. franchise agreement section. provide you with a list of approved suppliers for equipment signs fixtures opening inventory and supplies. which you will need to obtain. franchise agreement section. other assistance. assist you with setting up certain mandatory software systems websites and other technology used in the operation of the business and provide you with an email account. franchise agreement sections. and. and. consult with you in planning the grand opening promotional campaign. franchise agreement section. during the operation of the franchised the business after the opening of the franchised business we william upon your request and if approved by us provide you with additional opening assistance with sales promotional and operations matters regarding the franchised business if determined by us is needed at the rates published in the operations manual which is currently per day plus our expenses. this assistance will be provided on days and times as mutually agreed upon by you and us. franchise agreement section. periodically advise and offer general guidance to you by telephone mail video conferencefacsimile newsletters and other methods. our guidance is based on our experience in operating painting businesses. our advice and guidance may consist of knowledge and experience relating to the authorized services or products as well as operational methods accounting procedures and marketing and sales strategies. franchise agreement section. at our discretion make periodic visits to the franchised business for the purposes of consultation assistance and guidance in various aspects of the operation and management of the franchised business franchise agreement section and make available to you operations assistance and ongoing training as we deem necessary franchise agreement sections and. provide you with changes and additions to the system the operations manual the approved or designated suppliers and the approved products and services as generally made available to all franchisees. franchise agreement sections. and. approve forms of advertising materials you will use for local advertising grand opening advertising and cooperative advertising. franchise agreement section. and provide you with modifications to the manual as they are made available to franchisees. maintain a call center for the purpose of providing centralized customer service and scheduling for all businesses operating under the system and the marks. franchise agreement section. we will not provide any assistance relating to the prices at which you must sell your products and services. advertising and promotion each year you grand opening you must spend at least. per quarter for on grand opening advertising during the termperiod that is days before and days after the opening of the franchise agreement on advertising promotions and public relations in the local area surrounding the franchised business. you will pay for your ads and promotions directly but we will provide you with general marketing guidelines including print or news media and or direct mail advertising dues for business organizations event dues or other solicitation and promotional efforts. we will consult with you in planning and we will review and must approve your advertisements before it is available to the materials you use in the public.grand opening promotional. franchise agreement sectionssection. and. we have developed a system wide marketing fund where we have a marketing fund to which you will be required to must contribute up to as we determine of your gross sales to the fundamental franchise agreement section sections. and. we will administer the marketing fund as follows. we will control the creative we may use marketing fund contributions at our discretion to meet any and all costs of maintaining administering directing conducting developing and preparing advertising marketing public relations and other promotional programs and materials and any other activities which we believe will enhance the system including the costs of preparing and developing print radio and television advertising internet advertising direct mail advertising marketing surveys employing advertising or public relations agencies purchasing promotional items and providing promotional and other marketing materials and services to businesses operating under the system. the coverage of the materials and programs may be local regional or national. we may use the marketing fund to reimburse us or our affiliates for the internal expenses of operating an advertising department and administering the advertising program. we will direct all marketing fund programs with sole discretion over the concepts and the materials and media to be used in the programs and we will determine the placement and allocation of advertisements. we may use print television radio them. the marketing fund is intended to maximize and support general public recognition brand identity sales and patronage of painting businesses in the united states and canada and the system. we are not obligated to make expenditures for you on your behalf or in your territory which are equivalent or proportional to your contributions or to ensureinternet or other media for advertisements and promotions. we do not guarantee that any particular franchisee will benefitbenefits directly or in proportion to their contributionpro rata from the placement of advertisingexpenditures by the marketing fundamental all monies paid into the marketing fund will be accounted for separately from our general operating revenues. we anticipate that all contributions to the marketing fund will be expended during the marketing fund fiscal year in which they are received. the marketing fund is not a trust and we assume no fiduciary duty in administering the marketing fundamental marketing fund surpluses if any may be expended in the following fiscal year. we may advance money to the marketing fund from time to time. in this event we may be reimbursed by the marketing fund for the monies advanced including a reasonable interest rate. the marketing fund will not be audited but at your request you may receive an annual report of expenditures and advertising contributions for the fiscal year most recently ended. in we may use your contributions to meet any cost of producing maintaining ad ministering and directing consumer advertising including the cost of preparing and conducting television radio marketing fund expenditures were as follows type of expense video tv. social media. public relations. outdoor. production. mail. print media. electronic media. print materials. other. total. internet magazine and newspaper advertising campaigns and other public relations activities developing and or hosting an internet web page of similar activities employing advertising agencies to assist therein providing promotional brochures and providing other marketing materials to franchisees. we initially plan to conduct all advertising in house but we may use a national or regional advertising agency in the future. we will maintain your contributions in a separate account from our funds and we will not use them for any of our general operating expenses except for our reasonable administrative costs and overhead related to administration of the marketing fundamental we will not use marketing fund contributions for advertising that is principally a solicitation for the sale of franchises. we may use all contributions in the fiscal year they are made. we will use any interest or other earnings of the marketing fund before using current contributions. we intend for the marketing fund to be perpetual but we have the right to terminate it if necessary. we will not terminate the marketing fund until all contributions and earnings have been used for advertising and promotional purposes or have been returned to you and all of our franchisees on a pro rata basis. all painting businessespainting businesses owned by us or our affiliates will make similar contributions to the marketing fund as required of you. we will have a financial statement of the marketing fund prepared each year and we will provide you with a copy if you request it. we advertising council. we may require that the annual financial statement be audited byform at our discretion an independent certified public accountant at the expense of the marketing fundamental the marketing fund is not a trust and we assume no fiduciary dutyadvertising council consisting of painting businesses the advertising council in administering the marketing fundamental an advisory board has been formed by franchiseeswhich you may be required to participate and provide advice and counsel regarding our use of marketing fund contributions. the advisory boardthe marketing fundamental we select members of the advertising council based on a variety of objective and subjective factors including volume of business collaborative disposition availability and personal interest among others. the advertising council will function in an advisory capacity only and will not exercise authority over the marketing fund or over us. we reserve the right to change or dissolve the advertising council after formation.we reserve the right to change or dissolve the advertising council after formation. you may be required to your own expenses associated with participating in advertising council activities and pay dues assessed for the administration of the advertising council. we will pay our proportionate share of advertising council dues based on the number of painting businesses we or our affiliates operate. from time to time we may also seek input or feedback from the advertising council on system operational issues or other matters beyond advertising. cooperative advertising although we are not obligated to do so we may create a cooperative advertising program for the benefit of all painting businesses painting businesses located within a particular region. we have the right to a allocate any portionportion of the marketing fund to a cooperative advertising program and collect and designate all or a portion of the local advertising for a cooperative advertising program. we will determine the geographic territory and market areas for each cooperative advertising program and we may require cooperatives to be changed dissolved or merged. you must participate in any cooperative advertising program established in your region and if so we may establish an advertising council for you and the other franchisees in that region to self administer the program. franchise agreement section. franchisee payments to any advertising cooperative shall be determined by franchisee and those other franchisees of the painting system and or franchisor as the case may be who are participants in such advertising cooperative as set forth in the by laws of that advertising cooperative or membership dues participation or other payment agreements of such advertising cooperative. franchisee however may not be required to spend more than the greater of or of gross sales per annum in connection with any advertising cooperative. franchise agreement section. you local advertising in addition to contributions to the marketing fund after the grand opening program you must spend at least ten percent. of your gross sales per month on grand opening advertising during the periodadvertising in the protected territory either by way of direct promotion or participation in an advertising cooperative. you must provide us with evidence that is days before and days after the openingyou have spent the required amount on local advertising. we may require that your minimum local advertising expenditure be allocated to advertising of certain types using specific vendors in particular channels or as a component of a broader campaign. we may also require that any local marketing or advertising include reference in a form we determine to one or more franchise systems which may be owned by us or our affiliates provided that a substantial focus of those materials programs or activities includes the promotion of the business including print or news. your advertising must be in such media and or direct mail advertising dues and of such type format and other particulars as we approve must be conducted in a dignified manner and must conform to our standards and requirements. any and all advertising and marketing materials whether developed in connection with an advertising cooperative or otherwise not prepared or previously approved by us must be submitted to us at least days prior to any publication or run date for business organizations event dues or other solicitation and promotional efforts.approval which we may withhold for any or no reason. we will provide you with guidance for conducting grand opening advertising and we will review and approve the materials you use in your grand opening advertising. in addition we retain the option to collection from you before the openingwritten notification of approval or disapproval within a reasonable time. if we do not notify you of approval or disapproval within days of our receipt of the franchised business and implementmaterials the grand opening promotion on your behalf. franchise agreement section. materials will be approved. you may not establish create or operate an must discontinueinternet site or website using any domain name containing the words painting or any variation thereof without our prior written consent. we retain the sole right to advertise on the use of any approved advertising within five days of your receipt of our request to do so.internet and create web sites using the painting domain name and any other domain names we may designate in the manual. you may not advertise or promote your painting businessconduct advertising or promotion on or through the internet world wide web or other electronic transmission via computer without our express prior written approval. all of you advertising and promotion must be factually accurate and shall not detrimentally affect the marks or the system as we determine. you must use the telephone number provided by us for in connection with all marketing initiatives. we are not required to conduct local advertising for you. the advertising funds were used as follows during the most recently completed fiscal year marketing fund collected. expenses media. marketing creation. qiigo seo. scorpio. home show booths. website hosting. social media. promo giveaways. overhead. miscellaneous all advertising funds were spent in the fiscal year accrued. any advertising funds not used in the fiscal year in which they were contributed will be applied and used for advertising expenses in the following year. computer point of sale system hardware. you must purchase and use a laptop pc not a mac computer designated and approved by us that converts into a tablet. franchise agreement section. if we elect to modify our computer hardware or software requirements you must upgrade your equipment at the actual cost of the upgrade. there are no contractual limits on the frequency or cost of upgrades. we estimate the cost of the required computer hardware and software for your painting business at. to. you may use hardware and software that you currently own in the operation of your painting businesspainting so long as it meets our standards and specifications. you willare not required to incur any annual costs for optional or required maintenance updating upgrading or support contracts for the computer systems. call technology center. you must use our call center technology services described in item. through the business management software described below the call center answers customer calls takes basic customer information and schedules appointments for your business based on the availability you indicate. job proposal estimating business management software. you must use job proposal estimating business management software for the management of the franchised business through our approved vendor or vendors which is also described in item. other than this job proposal estimating softwarebusiness management software there are no additional maintenance costs. we will have access to your sales management system of your franchised business which will only include access to sales and lead generation information. other than this information the franchisor will not have independent access to any other information that may be generated or stored in any electronic cash register or computer system. internet. you must obtain and install a high speed internet connection through dsl or cable modem to your computer system at the approved location and maintain a validand use the mail address and account or accounts we provide to you to which you will have access and through which we may contact you. franchise agreement section we own your email account and have the right to independently access all information you collect or compileit at any time without first notifying you and you. you must givecooperate with us passwordto enable our access to your computer system to enable us to obtain this data. for example by providing your password. franchise agreement section websites. you must use our approved website provider for advertising your business on the internet. we will provide the url for your website. our access to your data we will not disclose to any third party any specific financial or other information directly associated with you or the business unless authorized by you. but we may disclose information to our employees attorneys accountants consultants agents and others retained or employed by us who have a need to know the information in order to facilitate the administration of the relationship between you and us or to comply with applicable law court orders or accounting rules. during the term of the franchise agreement we may collect and disclose to other franchisees operating in the system data relating to your operation of the business for the purpose of benchmarking or performance recognition. after termination of the franchise agreement we may release such information to other franchisees and prospective franchisees. upgrades updates and maintenance currently each of the required software programs used in the operation of the business are provided on a software as a service basis so you are not required to spend any additional money annually on upgrades updates or maintenance of those systems. we do not generally require that you spend any money annually on upgrades updates or maintenance to your computer hardware systems. but you are responsible for ensuring that your hardware performs adequately and maintains compatibility with the required software programs which may require you to service or upgrade your hardware. typical length of time before operation we estimate that the typical length of time between the signing of the franchise agreement and the opening of a painting businesspainting is no more than days. factors that may affect your beginning operations include ability to secure permits zoning and local ordinances whetherweather conditions and delays in installation of equipment and fixtures. you must commenceattend training at our headquarters as described below within days of signing the franchise agreement and you must open your franchised business and be operational within four three months after signing the franchise agreement. franchise agreement section. site selection you may operate your business from your home provided that it is equipped with a high speed internet connection that is always on such as dsl or cable modem and that you make adequate provisions for storage of equipment and supplies at or near your home. if you prefer you may locate your business elsewhere provided that the proposed alternate location meets our specifications and is expressly approved by us in writing. the criteria that we use in deciding whether to approve a location outside of your home are whether a it is located within the protected territory which will be designated in reference to your home address and it is suitable for use of the equipment required in the business and for storage of equipment and supplies. be designated in reference to your home address and that it is suitable for use of the equipment required in the business and for storage of painting equipment and supplies. we will respond to your request for approval within thirty days after you provide us with the information necessary for us to determine that it will otherwise satisfy our criteria. there is no time limit for the franchisor to approve or disapprove a site. we will not unreasonably withhold our approval of your proposed location outside of your home however you must operate the business from your home until we approve in writing an alternative location. you in writing. in addition you must operate from your home if we do not approve in writingor agree upon an alternative location in writing. we do not generally own the location of your business. we do not provide any assistance to you in conforming the premises of your business to local ordinances and building codes or obtaining any required permits. training the initial training program includes hours of on boarding training hours of on line training hours of classroom training at our headquarters in charlottesville virginia and hours of field training. if you will be an owner operator of the franchise you and an employee who will be your second in charge your assistant designated manager must attend and complete our initial training program to our satisfaction and within three months of signing the franchise agreement. if you will be a passive owner of the franchise then you the person you designate to operate the business on a daily basis your designated manager and a designated assistant designated manager must also attend and complete our initial training program to our satisfaction. if you replace your designated manager or assistant designated manager you must immediately inform us and the proposed replacement designated manager and or assistant designate manager must attend and complete our training program to our satisfaction. although the cost of initial training is included in the franchise fee you must pay for all costs in attending training such as travel employees salaries meals accommodations and other incidentals. you may also be charged fees for additional training of a new designated manager and or assistant designate manager. you must train your own employees and other management personnel. the schedule for our initial training program is provided on the following page. we will hold the training program within four weeks of when you sign the franchise agreementyou or your principal owner if you are an entity and your manager must attend and successfully complete an initial training program before the business may open. you must complete the initial training program no later than three months after the effective date of the franchise agreement. we do not charge a fee for the participation of up to two individuals in the initial training program but you are be responsible for the costs and expenses such as transportation lodging meals incidentals and compensation of each person who attends the training. the business must be operated at all times by a person who has successfully completed the initial training program. we reserve the right to waive all or a portion of the initial training program in its sole discretion. you may upon payment of our then current initial training fee and reasonable notice have additional representatives attend the initial training program. all travel living and related expenses incurred by your representatives during training will be at your cost and expense. you must train your own employees and other management personnel. training program for franchisees the initial training program is overseen and conducted by paul flickjosh hoffman. mister flick has more than hoffman has been with psb since february and has approximately years experience providingconducting training to new paintingprograms for franchisees. mister flick experience is also described in item. our confidential operations manual is used as the instructional material for our initial training program. after you have been trained we may periodically require that you your manager and or employees to attend refresher training programs concerning operation of the franchised business and if you mustattend we may require that you pay a fee and pay all your own expenses to attend these programs. the initial training program includes a week long approximately hours specialist directed on boarding program hours of on line training and hours of classroom training at our headquarters in charlottesville virginia and hours of field training. the schedule for our initial training program is provided below. the training program conducted at least once a month. the on boarding program is guided by an on boarding specialist who will help you understand and complete much of the administrative work necessary to enable you to apply the information covered in the virtual and live training programs to the opening of your business. on boarding is done at your own pace using web based materials we provide. we ask trainees to expect onboarding to take hours. after on boarding we provide virtual internet based training over a two week period. finally we provide a week long in person training program at our corporate offices in charlottesville virginia after which you should be ready to start operating your business. the topics and agenda for the virtual and live training programs are provided in the chart below. training program prior to the classroom training we will provide hours of on line training which will include the following topics vendor introductions painter recruitment setting up marketing initiatives practice estimates setting up insurance business plan and marketing plans. classroom training program for franchisees subject hours of classroom training hours of on the job training location virtual program welcome and core business principles. internet marketing and marketing spend internet financial planning internet production processing hiring internet vonigo. internet industry knowledge internet meet your coach internet estimating internet sales the step sales process internet preparation for live training understanding breakeven internet live program history philosophy of degree painting charlottesville virginiava use of the operations manual. charlottesville virginiava services provided to degree painting franchisees. charlottesville virginiava pre opening procedures charlottesville virginiava human resources charlottesville virginiava advertising marketing charlottesville virginiava sales procedures charlottesville virginiava pricing charlottesville virginiava management procedures charlottesville virginiava customer service procedures charlottesville virginiava use of the degreepainting software system charlottesville virginiava scheduling jobs charlottesville virginiava franchise reporting requirements charlottesville virginiava total item as of the date of this disclosure document many jurisdictions were under social distancing restrictions because of the coronavirus epidemic. to address these restrictions we have made the live program also available on the internet. item territory territory we provide a protected territory to each unit franchisee. you must operate your franchise only in the protected territory defined in exhibit ac of the franchise agreement and only from your home office or other approved office space and the vehicles. franchise agreement section. your protected territory will be delineated by zip codes streets highways or other natural or political boundaries and will consist of a geographic area containing not less than people as of the date of the franchise agreement. during the term of the franchise agreement we cannot change the protected territory without your consent and we will not establish any substantially similar franchised or company owned businesses under the name painting or any other name within your protected territory. franchise agreement sections. and. if you are in compliance with the franchise agreement during its term we will not establish or operate or license others to establish or operate painting businesses or competing businessesbusinesses within the protected territory. we do not offer any options rights of first refusal or similar rights to acquire additional franchises within the territory or contiguous territories. however wewe retain the right to a own and operate and license to others the right to own and operate painting or franchised businesses outside of your protected territory using the marks or any other marks we may designate own and operate and license to others the right to own and operate similar businesses under different names inside or outside of the protected territory under different marks use the marks and system in connection with services and products promotional and marketing effortsconducting marketing and promotional activities within it outside the protected territory including marketing and promotional activities related to the solicitation of national accounts defined below use the marks and system to offer services and products or related items or in alternative channels of distribution including the sale of goods or services through wholesale and retail stores via the internet through mail order catalog and via direct marketing through telephone television or radio within or outside of your protected territory delaware develop or become associated with other concepts including dual branding relationships and or operation of other franchise systems whether or not using the premium service brands system and or the marks and award franchises under other concepts for locations anywhere ef acquire be acquired by merge affiliate with or engage in any transaction with other businesses whether competitive or not with units located anywhere these transactions and if such transaction involves the operation or license of a business in the protected territory may include the conversion such a business painting franchise disclosure document arrangements involving competing outlets and brand conversions to or fromone operated under the paintingmarks and the system and fg engage in any other activities not expressly prohibited by the franchise agreement. franchise agreement section. we are not required to pay you for soliciting or accepting orders from inside your protected territory. we may enter into agreements periodically with customers that we consider national account customersaccounts that is customers that contract with us or with our affiliate for the provision of services at more than one location. to the extent thatif we enter into an agreement with a national account customer that requires services in your territoryprotected territory and you are then in compliance with the franchise agreement we maywill offer you the right to provide the services on the terms provided in the contract with the national account. you will have days to accept or reject the opportunity to provide services to the national account on the terms contained in the national account contract. if you decline the opportunity or fail to respond within days we may provide the services ourselves directly or we may subcontractoffer the workopportunity to another franchisee or independent contractor who may provide services in a third party. if any national account informs us that your territory.services do not meet their standards or their selection criteria we may offer the opportunity to service the national account to another franchisee. you will be compensated only for the services that you provide. you are restricted from soliciting or advertising foryou may not solicit customers or advertise outside of your protected territory and you may not advertise on the internet or use other channels of distribution without our prior written consent. you are not required to achieve a sales or market penetration quota. franchise agreement section. you must obtain our written consent and approval before opening an office location other than your home office. the conditions under which we will approve an office re location are the same as those under which we will approve any office outside your home and they are described in item. of this disclosure document. we do not make any representations concerning site selection assistance should you choose to relocate your business from your home office. the franchisor will not pay any compensation for soliciting or accepting orders inside the franchisee territory. franchisee is not prohibited from soliciting or accepting orders from consumers outside its territory unless another franchisee is already operating in that territory. you will not receive an exclusive territory. you may face competition from other franchisees from outlets that we own or from other channels of distribution or competitive brands that we control. until completion of your second calendar year of owning a franchise the cost of residentialpainting decorating and wall finishing services cannot exceed. per project or. in the aggregate without our prior approval. residentialpainting decorating and wall finishing services are limited to one two or three owner occupied dwellings. subject to your compliance with the terms of the certification programs referenced below and national accounts listed immediatelydescribed above and subject to you being in full compliance with the franchise agreement you may perform commercial work in your protected territory but you agree and acknowledge that you do not own thehave exclusive rights to perform such commercial work in your protected territory. if you wish to offer services other than residentialpainting decorating and wall finishing services you must obtain our prior written approval which we may grant at our sole discretion. we may condition our approval on your completion of a certification program if any and the payment of any licensing fee associated with providing additional services. active development of the protected territory is important to the effective development of the system. we select franchisees in reliance upon their commitment to actively implement the system in the protected territory. so beginning months after the effective date and after notice to you we may identify and implement quantitative operational performance standards for example gross sales upon which your development of the protected territory and active implementation of the system will be evaluated. if your performance under such standards fails to meet or exceed the performance of the lowest of all franchised units operating for at least months under the system and the marks as we determine in any months of any year we may a require you and your employees to attend and complete additional training programs or provide additional on site assistance and consultation. if we provide any additional training assistance or consultation you will be responsible for all costs and expenses for such training assistance or consultation which may include a fee payable to us. if you fail to improve your performance by at least and you fail to meet or exceed the performance of the lowest of all franchised units operating for at least months under the system and the marks in any of the next months we may eliminate your territorial protection or terminate the franchise agreement. if itemthe us postal service modifies any of the zip codes encompassed by the protected territory or which represent the area included in the protected territory we may modify the protected territory to account for the modification. the modified protected territory may result in fewer people being included in or a smaller geographic area being represented by the protected territory. except as described above you are not required to achieve a sales or market penetration quota and we cannot change the protected territory without your consent. item trademarks trademarks we grant you the right to operate a franchised business under the name painting and using the stylized mark painting. our predecessor painting incorporated registered the following mark on the united states patent and trademark office principal register which was assigned to us. mark registration number registration date painting may registration number was renewed on march. we grant the right to operate painting businesses under the service mark painting. you may also use any other current or future mark to operate your painting business that we designate in writing including the logo on the front of this disclosure document. by mark we mean trade names trademarks service marks and logos used to identify painting businesses. painting llc has obtained registration of the painting mark on the principal register of the. patent and trademark office uspto and has filed all required affidavits. we have filed required affidavits and renewals pertaining to this mark. you may use this registered trademark and other current and future marks to operate your franchised business as we may designate. mark registration number registration date na na we do not have a federal registration for the stylized mark painting apart from the word mark shown in the first table above. therefore this mark does not have many legal benefits and rights as a federally registered trademark. if our right to use this trademark is challenged you may have to change to an alternative trademark which may increase your expenses. we have not applied for a federal trademark registration for this mark as of the date of this disclosure document but we intend to do so. there are currently no agreements in effect that significantly limit our rights to use or license the use of the marks that are material to you. you must follow our requirements when you use the marks. you must use only the marks that we designate and you may use them only in the manner we authorize. you may use the marks only in connection with operating your franchised business in the protected territory or in advertising for the business in the protected territory. you may not use the marks as part of your corporate or other legal name. there are currently no effective material determinations of the uspto trademark trial and appeal board theany state trademark administrator of this state or any court pending infringement opposition or cancellation or pending material litigation involving the marks. therewe are nonot aware of any infringing or prior superior uses actually known to usof the marks that could materially affect the use of the marks in this state or any other state in which the painting business is to be located.painting is to be located. if we become aware of potentially infringing uses and we believe we can demonstrate that we have superior prior rights we intend to send cease and desist letters to the business that are using the painting name and may take further legal action where we believe it is warranted. there are no agreements currently in effect which significantly limit our rights to use or license the use of the marks in any manner material to the franchise. you will not receive any rights to the marks other than the nonexclusive right to use them in the operation of your painting business.painting. you may only use the marks in accordance with our standards operating procedures and specifications. any unauthorized use of the marks by you is a breach of the franchise agreement and an infringement of our rights in the marks. you may not contest the validity or ownership of the marks including any marks that we license to you after you sign the franchise agreement. you may not assist any other person in contesting the validity or ownership of the marks. you must immediately notify us of any apparent infringement of or challenge to your use of any mark or any claim by any person of any rights in any marks and you may not communicate with any person other than us and our counsel regarding any infringements challenges or claims unless you are legally required to do so however you may communicate with your own counsel at your own expense. we may take whatever action we deem appropriate in these situations and we have exclusive control over any settlement or proceeding concerning any mark. you must take any actions that in the opinion of our counsel may be advisable to protect and maintain our interests in any proceeding or to otherwise protect and maintain our interests in the marks. we can require you to modify or discontinue the use of any mark and to use other trademarks or service marks. we will not be required to reimburse you for modifying or discontinuing the use of a mark or for substituting another trademark or service mark for a discontinued mark. we are not obligated to reimburse you for any loss of goodwill associated with a modified or discontinued mark. we will reimburse you for all of your expenses reasonably incurred in any legal proceeding disputing your authorized use of any mark but only if you notify us of the proceeding in a timely manner and you have complied with our directions with regard to that proceeding. we have the right to control the defense and settlement of that proceeding. our reimbursement does not include your expenses for removing signage or discontinuing your use of any mark. our reimbursement also does not apply to any disputes where we challenge your use of a mark. our reimbursement does not apply to legal fees you incur in seeking separate independent legal counsel. you must use the marks as the sole trade identification of the franchised business howeverbut if you are a unit franchisee and your painting businesspainting is a conversion franchise during the first six months that your unit franchise is open we may in our discretion allow you to display secondary signage referring to your prior trade name. you may not use any mark or part of any mark as part of your corporate name in any modified form. you may not use any mark in connection with the sale of any unauthorized products or services or in any other manner that we do not authorize in writing. you must obtain a fictitious or assumed name registration if required by your state or local law. you must notify us if you apply for your own trademark or service mark registrations. you must not register or seek to register as a trademark or service mark either with the uspto or any state or foreign country any of the marks or a trademark or service mark that is confusingly similar to any of our marks. item patents copyrights and proprietary information item patents copyrights and proprietary information there are no patents of which we are aware that are material to the painting businesses.painting businesses and there are no patents pending. we own copyrights in the operations manual our estimating software marketing materials and other copyrightable items that are part of the system. while we claim copyrights in these and similar items we have not registered these copyrights with the united states registrar of copyrights and need not do so to protect them. you may use these items only as we specify while operating the franchised business and you must stop using them if we direct you to do so. you must promptly tell us when you learn about any unauthorized use of copyrighted information. we have the right to control any litigation concerning our copyrighted materials. we are not obligated to protect your rights to use the copyrighted materials. there are currently no effective determinations of the copyright office library of congress or any court regarding the copyrighted materials. our right to use or license copyrighted items is not materially limited by any agreement or known infringing use. we have developed certain confidential information including certain trade secrets methods of business management sales and promotion techniques and know how knowledge of and experience in operating mobile full service painting decorating and wall finishing services businesses. and we may divulge this information in confidence to qualified franchisees and managers. we will provide our confidential information to you during training in the operations manual and as a result of the assistance we furnish you during the term of the franchise. you may only use the confidential information for the purpose of operating your painting business.painting. you may only divulge confidential information to employees who must have access to it to operate the painting business.painting. you must enforce the confidentiality provisions as to your employees. certain individuals individuals with access to confidential information including your owners and members of their immediate families officers directors executives managers and professional staff may be required to sign nondisclosure and non competition agreements the same as or similar to the nondisclosure and non competition agreement attached toare required to execute the personal covenants contained in the franchise agreement as exhibit which are substantially the same as the noncompetition non solicitation and confidentiality covenants contained in the franchise agreement. all ideas concepts techniques or materials concerning your painting businesspainting whether or not protectable intellectual property and whether created by or for you or your owners or employees must be promptly disclosed to us and will be deemed our sole and exclusive property and a part of the system that we may choose to adopt and or disclose to other franchisees. likewise we will disclose to you concepts and developments of other franchisees that we make part of the system. you must also assist us in obtaining intellectual property rights in any concept or development if requested. item obligation to participate in the actual operation of the franchised business item obligation to participate in the actual operation of the franchise business your unit franchise must always be under the direct on premises full time supervision of a designated manager which is you if you are an individual or is an individual you select if you are a business entity. we strongly encourage you to operate the unit franchise and are primarily seeking to grant franchises to owner operators. howeverbut if you pursue this franchise as a second business we must approve of your designated manager you hire to ensure he or she willthe rsums of potential managers and be able to implement our system standards. we may requestallowed to conduct phone interviews with your potential designated managers before they may begin to work. you and your designated manager must attend and satisfactorily complete our initial training program before opening the unit franchise. your designated manager must also complete the on the job training program before opening your unit franchise. you must keep us informed of the identity of your current designated manager. if you are a corporation or other business entity and the unit franchise is under the supervision of a designated manager he or she does not have to be one of your owners or otherwise have an equity interest in the franchise. guaranty agreement we require all of our franchisees to personally guarantee that any and all amounts due and owing to us will be paid in accordance with the terms disclosed in our franchise agreement as we deem necessary for adequate security. if you are not an individual all principals of your organization i persons or partners who sign the franchise agreement and in the case of a corporation partnership or limited liability company the shareholders partners managers or members of that organization and their respective spouses must sign the guaranty agreement presented at the end ofas an exhibit to the franchise agreement as exhibit as we deem necessary for adequate security. this is a personal guarantee of the obligations under the franchise agreement. in addition individuals who sign the franchise agreement must also provide a spousal personal guaranty of all obligations under the franchise agreement. this guaranty agreement gives us the right to collect any amounts due us from you personally. neither we nor our affiliates guarantee any notes leases or other obligations you may have with a third party.each guarantor personally. personal covenants miscellaneous as described in itemitem certain individuals having access to confidential information may beare required to sign nondisclosure and non competition agreementsexecute the personal covenants contained in the franchise agreement as exhibit which are substantially the same as or similar to the nondisclosure and non competition agreement attached tothe noncompetition non solicitation and confidentiality covenants contained in the franchise agreement. we will be a third party beneficiary with the right to enforce the agreements. if you are a business entity anyone who owns a or greater interest in the entity must personally guarantee the performance of all of your obligations under the franchise agreement and be personally liable for your breach of the franchise agreement by signing the guaranty agreement attached to the franchise agreement. item restrictions on what the franchisee may sell unit franchisees item restrictions on what the franchisee may sell you may only use your home office or another office location selected by you with our approval and the vehicles for the operation of your unit franchise and you must not use or permit the use of that office or those vehicles for any other purpose without our written consent. you must operate your unit franchise in strict conformity with the methods standards and specifications in the operations manual and as we may require otherwise in writing. you may not deviate from these standards specifications and procedures without our written consent. you must offer all of the services and products we specify in strict accordance with our standards and specifications. we have the right using our reasonable business judgment to specify the maximum prices at which you must offer some or all of the products and services. you may not sell any services or products that we have not authorized and you must discontinue offering any services or products that we may in our sole discretion disapprove in writing at any time. if your franchise is a conversion you must stop using all products supplies and equipment that we have not approved or that does not conform to our system. we may periodically change the required or authorized products or services at allfor painting businesses painting businesses. there are no limits on our right to do so. if we modify the system you may be required to add or replace equipment signs and fixtures and you may have to make improvements or modifications as necessary to maintain uniformity with our current standards and specifications. occasionally we may allow certain services or products that are not otherwise authorized for general use as a part of the system to be offered locally or regionally based upon factors as we determine including test marketing your qualifications and regional or local differences. item renewal termination transfer and dispute resolution the franchise relationship as noted in item until completion of your second calendar year of owning a franchise the cost of painting decorating and wall finishing services cannot exceed per project or in the aggregate without our prior approval. painting decorating and wall finishing services are limited to one two or three owner occupied dwellings. subject to your compliance with the terms of the certification programs referenced below and national accounts described above and subject to you being in full compliance with the franchise agreement you may perform commercial work in your protected territory but you do not have exclusive rights to perform such commercial work in your protected territory. if you wish to offer services other than painting decorating and wall finishing services you must obtain our prior written approval which we may grant at our sole discretion. we may condition our approval on your completion of a certification program if any and the payment of any licensing fee associated with providing additional services. item renewal termination transfer and dispute resolution this table lists certain important provisions of the franchise and related agreements. you should read these provisions in the agreements attached to this disclosure document. provision section in franchise agreement summary a length of the franchise term section. years. renewal or extension of the term section. additional successive terms of years each subject to below. a requirements for franchisee to renew or extendprovision section in franchise agreement. you may renew if you give timely written notice have complied with the franchise agreement are not in default sign the then current franchise agreement which may have terms and conditions materially different from those in your original contract pay a renewal fee maintain update and or replace the vehicles maintain refurnish renovate modernize and remodel the business have satisfied your monetary obligations meet current qualifications and training requirements and sign a general release. summary. termination by franchisee section. you may terminate the franchise agreement if we materially breach it and we fail to cure our breach. termination by franchisor without cause not applicable no provision. termination by franchisor with cause sections. and. we can terminate your franchise agreement if you are in default. cause defined curable defaults section. you will have days to cure failure to make payments due failure to operate the business under the supervision of an approved manager. you will have days to cure failure or refusal to submit reports or statements failure to relocate or a default under any lease failure to obtain or provide proof of insurance failure to reopen after casualty and any other default under a provision of the franchise agreement.a cause defined non curable defaults length of the franchise term section. the initial term is years.noncurable defaults include failure to complete initial training failure to commence operation abandonment failure or refusal to actively operate the business bankruptcy insolvency or having a trustee or provision section in franchise agreement summary receiver appointed dissolution failure to pay amounts owed felony crime of moral turpitude or other crime that may adversely affect our reputation and goodwill environmental health or safety hazards misrepresentation unauthorized transfer misuse of any mark and failure to correct within days of notice misappropriation of any mark acts that may impair the goodwill of any mark challenging ownership of the marks filing a lawsuit involving the marks without consent failure to cooperate with us to defend any mark failure to comply with covenants unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information or trade secrets fail to comply with any law maintaining false books or records or denying our access to books and records submitting a financial report or other data that underestimates fees multiple defaults within a twelve month period or material default under any other agreement you have with us. i franchisee obligations on termination or non renewal section internet web sites and listings agreement telephone listing agreement you must return all confidential information stop using the system and the marks and refrain from doing business under a confusing name or manner pay all sums owed to us delaware identify the vehicles and the business if requested assign your business assets to us cancel or assign to us any assumed names assign your telephone and facsimile numbers to us fulfill warranties obligations and either i post a bond equal to. of your gross sales for the last months or ii pay us a fee comply with the covenants not to compete and any other surviving provisions of the franchise agreement. assignment of contract by franchisor section. there are no restrictions on our right to assign our interest in the franchise agreement. transfer by franchisee definition section. transfer includes transfer of ownership or any interest in the business the franchise agreement the vehicle the franchised business assets or the franchisee entity or its owners if an entity. franchisor approval of transfer by franchisee section. and section. you may not transfer without our prior written consent. conditions for franchisor approval of transfer section. you may transfer if you have paid all monetary obligations are not in default sign a general release pay to us a transfer fee offer us and we provision section in franchise agreement summary decline to exercise a right of first refusal provide us with copies of all transfer documents and the terms and conditions will not affect adversely the operation of the business by transferee subordinate debt remain liable for all warranties. the transferee must meet our standards be bound jointly and severally or execute our then current form of franchise agreement obtain all necessary consents and approvals comply with applicable laws sign a general release if we request refurbish the vehicles or purchase additional vehicles. franchisor right of first refusal to acquire franchisee business section we may match an offer for your business or an ownership interest that you propose to sell. franchisor option to purchase franchisee business section. on termination or cancellation we have the option to purchase the business the vehicles and or any portion of the assets of the business excluding any real property. death or disability of franchisee section. upon your death or disability the franchise agreement must be transferred to a party approved by us. non competition covenants during the term of the franchise section. you your spouse and your owners and managers and their spouses may not have any interest in a competitive business or perform services for a competitive business. non competition covenants after the franchise is terminated or expires section. and. for years after the termination or expiration you and the bound parties may not a have any interest in a competitive business or perform services for a competitive business located within the protected territory or within a twenty mile radius as the crow flies of the protected territory or any other painting franchised location or solicit any of our or any of our franchisee customers or vendors or otherwise interfering with or disrupting these customer or vendor relationships. modification of the agreement section and the franchise agreement can be modified only by written agreement between you and us. we may modify the operations manual without your consent to reflect changes in the painting system and painting operating requirements. integration merger clause section any representations or promises outside of the franchise disclosure document and other agreements may not be enforceable. nothing in provision section in franchise agreement summary the franchise agreement or any related agreement however is intended to disclaim the representations made in the franchise disclosure document furnished to you. dispute resolution by arbitration or mediation no provision. choice of forum section. any litigation must be pursued in courts located in the county and state in which we maintain our principal place of business currently albemarle county virginia unless individual state law directs otherwise. choice of law section. virginia law applies except disputes over the marks will be governed by the united states trademark act of lanham act. second et seq. and unless individual state law directs otherwise. provision section in franchise agreement summary. renewal or extension of the term section. you may renew for additional successive terms of years each subject to below. requirements for franchisee to renew or extend section. you may renew the franchise agreement if you have given timely written notice of your intent to renew have substantially complied with the provisions of the franchise agreement are not in default of any provision of the franchise agreement or any other agreement between you and us sign the then current franchise agreement which may have terms and conditions materially different from those in your original contract pay a renewal fee in the amount of of the then current initial franchise fee complete to our satisfaction all maintenance updating and replacement of the vehicles and all maintenance refurnishing renovation modernizing and remodeling of the business have satisfied all monetary obligations owed to us comply with current qualifications and training requirements and sign a general release in a form the same as or similar to the general release attached to the franchise agreement. termination by franchisee section. you may terminate the franchise agreement if you are in compliance with it and we materially breach it and we fail to cure our breach within days or days as required if curable and commenced within initial days of receiving your written notice. termination by franchisor without cause not applicable we may not terminate the franchise agreement without cause. termination by franchisor with cause section. and. we may terminate the franchise agreement either with or without a cure period for the reasons set forth in these sections. cause defined curable defaults section. you can avoid termination of the franchise agreement if you cure the following defaults within days of receiving our notice of termination failure to make payments due us or failure to operate the business under the supervision of an approved manager. in addition we have the right to terminate the agreement upon days notice if any other default under the franchise agreement remains uncured but you may be provided an provision section in franchise agreement summary additional thirty days if the default cannot reasonably be cured within the thirty day period. cause defined non curable defaults section. we have the right to terminate the franchise agreement without giving you an opportunity to cure if you fail to satisfactorily complete initial training fail to commence operation of the business within four months after execution of this agreement abandon fail or refuse to actively operate the business for more than five consecutive days file for or are forced into bankruptcy become insolvent or have a trustee or receiver appointed for any part of your property are dissolved voluntarily or involuntarily if you are a business entity fail to pay any amount owed to any creditor supplier or lessor of the business or the vehicles or any taxing authority and fail to correct the failure within calendar days of notice thereof fail to satisfy the minimum royalty requirement are convicted of or plead no contest to a felony a crime involving moral turpitude or any other crime or offense that is likely to adversely affect our reputation and goodwill operate your business in a manner that presents an environmental health or safety hazard make a material misrepresentation to us before or after being granted the franchise make an unauthorized transfer of this agreement the franchise the business or an ownership interest in the franchise misuse or make an unauthorized use of any mark and fail to correct or cease such use within days of notice thereof misappropriate any mark commit any act that could reasonably be expected to materially impair or detrimentally impact the goodwill of any mark challenge our ownership of the marks file a lawsuit involving the marks without our consent or fail to cooperate with us to defend any mark fail to comply fully with covenants not to compete make or permit a third party to make any unauthorized use or disclosure of any of our confidential information or trade secrets fail to comply with any law or regulation applicable to the operation of the franchise provided if the failure does not involve tax evasion or result in governmental proceedings only if not cured within a reasonable period not to exceed days knowingly provision section in franchise agreement summary maintain false books or records or deny our access to books and records during an audit or inspection submit a financial report or other data that underestimate by more than the royalties and or marketing fund contribution default under the agreement three or more times within a twelve month period or default under any other agreement you have with us such that we may terminate that other agreement. i franchisee obligations on termination or non renewal section. and. internet web sites agreement page i and ii telephone listing agreement i and ii if the franchise agreement is terminated or not renewed you must stop using all confidential information including customer data as well as the system and the marks return the manual marks and all other confidential information stop operating the franchised business and refrain from doing business under any name or in any manner that may give the general public the impression that you are in any way connected with us pay all sums owed to us including damages and costs incurred in enforcing the termination provisions of the franchise agreement make reasonable modifications to the vehicle and any real property used in connection with the business as necessary to eliminate their identification as being connected with the a painting business if requested assign your business assets to us cancel or assign to us any assumed names assign your telephone and facsimile numbers to us fulfill all obligations to customers under outstanding warranties and to ensure fulfillment post a bond equal to. of your gross sales for the last months or pay us a fee of whichever is greater with the balance net of any amounts expended to ensure outstanding warranty obligations to be returned on fulfillment comply with the covenants not to compete and any other surviving provisions of the franchise agreement. assignment of contract by franchisor section. there are no restrictions on our right to assign our interest in the franchise agreement. transfer by franchisee definition section. transfer includes transfer of ownership or any interest in the franchised business the franchise agreement the vehicle the provision section in franchise agreement summary franchised business assets or the franchisee entity or its owners if an entity. franchisor approval of transfer by franchisee section. and section. you may not transfer any interest in any of the items listed in above without our prior written consent. conditions for franchisor approval of transfer section. we will consent to a transfer if you have paid all monetary obligations in full are not in default under the franchise agreement or any other agreement with us sign a general release pay to us a transfer fee equal to offer us and we decline to exercise a right of first refusal provide us with copies of all contracts and agreements between you and the transferee related to the transfer with terms and conditions not so burdensome as to affect adversely the operation of the business by transferee agree to subordinate any debt owed to you by transferee to transferee obligations to us under the franchise agreement remain liable for all warranties granted during your operation of the business. the transferee must satisfy us that it meets our standards and has the ability to conduct the business agree to be bound jointly and severally by all provisions of the franchise agreement or at our option execute our then current form of franchise agreement obtain all necessary consents and approvals required by third parties comply with or satisfy all applicable laws rules ordinances and requirements applicable to the transfer sign a general release if we request refurbish the vehicles or purchase additional vehicles meeting the specifications of the operating manual. franchisor right of first refusal to acquire franchisee business section we may match an offer for your franchised business or an ownership interest that you propose to sell. franchisor option to purchase franchisee business section. except in the case of a renewal under section we shall have the option upon termination expiration or cancellation of the franchise agreement to purchase the business the vehicles and or any portion of the assets of the business excluding any real property. death or disability of franchisee section. upon your death or disability the franchise agreement must be transferred to a party approved by us. provision section in franchise agreement summary. non competition covenants during the term of the franchise section. you your spouse and your owners and managers as applicable and their spouses the bound parties are prohibited from having any interest as a disclosed or beneficial owner in a competitive business regardless of location or performing services as a director officer manager employee consultant representative agent or otherwise for a competitive business regardless of location. non competition covenants after the franchise is terminated or expires section. and. for years after the termination or expiration of the franchise agreement you and the bound parties are prohibited from having any interest as a disclosed or beneficial owner in a competitive business performing services for a competitive business located within the protected territory or within a twenty mile radius as the crow flies of the protected territory or any other painting franchised location soliciting or attempting to solicit any of our or any of our franchisee employees customers or vendors or otherwise interfering with or disrupting these employment customer or vendor relationships. modification of the agreement section and the franchise agreement can be modified only by written agreement between you and us. we may modify the operations manual without your consent to reflect changes in the painting system and painting business operating requirements. integration merger clause section any representations or promises outside of the franchise disclosure document and other agreements may not be enforceable. nothing in the franchise agreement or any related agreement however is intended to disclaim the representations made in the franchise disclosure document furnished to you. dispute resolution by arbitration or mediation. choice of forum section. any litigation must be pursued in courts located in the county and state in which we maintain our principal place of business currently albemarle county virginia unless individual state law directs otherwise. choice of law section. the franchise agreement shall be governed by the laws of the commonwealth of virginia except that disputes over the provision section in franchise agreement summary marks will be governed by the united states trademark act of lanham act. second et seq. unless individual state law directs otherwise. item item public figures public figures we do not use any public figure to promote our franchise. item financial performance representations item financial performance representations the ftc franchise rule permits a franchisor to provide information about the actual or potential financial performance of its franchised and or franchisor owned outlets if there is a reasonable basis for the information and if the information is included in the disclosure document. financial performance information that differs from that included in item may be given only if a franchisor provides the actual records of an existing outlet you are considering buying or a franchisor supplements the information provided in this item for example by providing information about possible performance at a particular location or under particular circumstances. below is certain historical financial information regarding painting franchisees that operated in the united states and canada from january through december. the historical financial information below is based upon information regarding the actual gross sales of painting franchisees open for business and operating continuously during calendar year. some franchisees own more than one territory. the primary characteristic of the represented outlets that may differ from those of a new franchisee is that a new franchisee does not have a customer base immediately and an existing franchisee receives repeat and referral business from its existing customer base. of the one hundred and six painting franchisees that were open for business and operating in the united states and canada as of december seventy seven or had been in business continuously during calendar year. no data has been included for franchisees who were terminated not renewed reacquired or which left our system for other reasons during calendar year or for any franchisor owned locations. fifteen painting franchises ceased operations for other reasons during calendar year. zero of the fifteen painting franchises which ceased operations during calendar year had been opened for business for less than twelve months. see item for more information. we do not operate any franchisor owned locations. some outlets have sold this amount. your individual results may differ. there is no assurance that youll sell as much. average and median gross sales the average gross sales of the seventy seven painting franchisees described above during calendar year was. of the seventy seven painting franchisees described above franchisees actually attained or surpassed the average gross sales of. for calendar year. the median gross sales of the referenced painting franchisees during calendar year was. with the highest gross sales of a painting franchisee during the relevant period being. and the lowest being. gross sales is the amount of all sales of all products and services sold by a painting franchisee in connection with the franchised business whether evidenced by cash credit check gift certificate gift card script or other property or services without reserve or deduction for inability or failure to collect and includes income of every kind related to the franchised business. gross sales do not include sales use merchants or other taxes paid to the government or the value of any approved coupons discounts and refunds to customers. the market in which you operate your franchise may allow you to charge higher prices or force you to charge lower prices for products or services offered by your franchise which would ultimately affect your average gross sales. the economic conditions and demographic characteristics in the market in which you operate your franchise may differ substantially from those of the markets in which the seventy seven painting franchisees referenced in this item operated during and if so those differences may substantially affect the number of sales made by your franchise. we strongly recommend that you make your own independent investigation of whether or not the franchise may be profitable and confer with your attorney accountant or other business advisor before executing any agreement with us. this disclosure does not include any information concerning the identified franchisees actual operating expenses. the operating expenses that your franchise incurs will depend on the market conditions for that type of expense in your region. these expenses may include but are not limited to painting products personnel and benefits expenses utilities advertising rates automobile costs facility leases and insurance and workers compensation. see paragraph of the california addendum for more information. the operating software that we license to painting franchisees estimates the labor costs and the amount of paint and other inventory that will be required for a particular job based on information inputted by the franchisee. the software then establishes a price for the job equal to. times the projected cost of labor and supplies which provides for a projected gross margin equal to forty five percent of the cost of labor and supplies. this is not a disclosure of the actual costs of labor or goods sold by our franchisees rather it is merely an explanation of the pricing and cost estimating methodology employed by the operating software we license to you. the estimates generated by the software are based on the experience of our officers in operating and information provided to us by active painting franchisees. however the actual costs and profit margins of existing painting franchisees can be determined only though discussions with and disclosures from those franchisees. in this item we indicate the historical performance of certain franchisees during calendar year. we have included data only for those franchisees who were open and reported revenues in each month of the year. we have excluded data from any franchisee that opened or closed during the year and did not report revenue for each month. we also have not included data for franchisees who were nominally open for the whole year but did not report any revenue in any month. the data contained in this item comes from different franchisees who own a total of units each franchise territory is a unit. as of december we had units that were open. franchisees with more than one unit typically report their consolidated revenues. in each of these cases we have divided the consolidated revenues reported by the franchisees by the number of units owned by that franchisee to arrive at a unit volume. the following charts present a summary of the revenues achieved by franchisees per unit during the calendar year overall and sorted by third by revenue. unit revenues criteria value franchisees units average revenues by unit median revenues number of units above average revenues unit revenues number of units below average revenues lowest total revenues highest total revenues unit revenue by thirds sorted by revenues bottom third middle third top third of units range low high low high low high average in range units in range above below average above below above below above below median in range the figures contained in this item were compiled by us based upon reports of gross sales provided to us by our franchisees. for the period between january and december in compliance with the requirements of their franchise agreements that they supply these figures. we have assumed that the franchisees information is accurate complete and contains no material misrepresentations or omissions. we have not audited or verified this information. this information has not been separately audited or verified by an independent certified public accountant and it may not have been prepared on a basis consistent with generally accepted accounting principles. some outlets have sold this amount. your individual results may differ. there is no assurance that youll sell as much. revenues is the amount of all sales of all products and services sold by a painting franchisee in connection with the franchised business whether evidenced by cash credit check gift certificate gift card script or other property or services without reserve or deduction for inability or failure to collect and includes income of every kind related to the franchised business. revenues do not include sales use merchants or other taxes paid to the government or the value of any approved coupons discounts and refunds to customers. the revenue figures presented above do not reflect the costs of sales operating expenses or other costs or expenses that must be deducted from revenue or sales figures to obtain your net income or profit. the operating expenses that your franchise incurs will depend on the market conditions for that type of expense in your region. these expenses may include but are not limited to painting products personnel and benefits expenses utilities advertising rates automobile costs facility leases and insurance and workers compensation. you should conduct an independent investigation of the costs and expenses you will incur in operating your franchised business. franchisees or former franchisees listed in the exhibits and may be one source of this information. we recommend that you confer with your attorney accountant or other business advisor before executing any agreement with us. the market in which you operate your franchise may allow you to charge higher prices or force you to charge lower prices for products or services offered by your franchise which would ultimately affect your revenues. the economic conditions and demographic characteristics in the market in which you operate your franchise may differ substantially from those of the markets in which the forty one painting franchisees referenced in this item operated their fifty one units during. those differences may substantially affect the number and amount of sales made by your franchise. the operating software that we license to painting franchisees estimates the labor costs and the amount of paint and other inventory that will be required for a particular job based on information inputted by the franchisee. the software then establishes a price for the job equal to. times the projected cost of labor and supplies which provides for a projected gross margin equal to forty five percent of the cost of labor and supplies. this is not a disclosure of the actual costs of labor or goods sold by our franchisees rather it is merely an explanation of the pricing and cost estimating methodology employed by the operating software we license to you. the estimates generated by the software are based on the experience of our officers in operating and information provided to us by active painting franchisees. but the actual costs and profit margins of existing painting franchisees can be determined only though discussions with and disclosures from those franchisees. written substantiation of the financial performance representation in this item will be made available to you upon reasonable request. other than the precedingwe do not make any representations about a franchisee future financial performance representation painting llc does not make any or past financial performance representationsof company owned or franchised outlets. we also do not authorize our employees or representatives to make any such representations either orally or in writing. if you are purchasing an existing outlet however we may provide you with the actual records of that outlet. if you receive any other financial performance information or projections of your future income you should report it to the franchisor management by contacting paul flick peter jefferson parkway suite charlottesville virginia the federal trade commission and the appropriate state regulatory agencies. item outlets and franchisee information item outlets and franchisee information table number system wide outlet summary for years to systemwide outlet summary for fiscal years to column outlet type column year column outlets at the start of the year column outlets at the end of the year column net change franchised company owned total outlets table number transfers of outlets from franchisees to new owners other than the franchisor for years to transfers of outlets from franchisees to new owners other than the franchisor for fiscal years to column state column year column number of state year transfers inserted cells inserted cells alabama florida totals illinois utah virginia texas total table number franchised outlets status summary for fiscal years to status of franchise outlets for the years to col. state col. year col. outlets at operating at start ofof year col. outlets opened termination scol. termin ations col. non renewals col. reacquired by by franchisor col. ceased operations other reasons col. outlets operating at end of the year end alabama merged cells split cells merged cells split cells arizona arkansas arkansas california california colorado colorado court court floruit floruit georgia georgia illinois idaho illinois in merged cells split cells merged cells split cells merged cells split cells merged cells split cells merged cells split cells merged cells split cells merged cells split cells iowa kansas key louisiana medicinae doctor massachusetts michigan minnesota month nevada new hampshire new jersey new mexico new york north carolina merged cells split cells oh ok or pennsylvania scottish south dakota tennessee texas utah vermont virginia washington wisconsin total us table number company owned outlets status summary for fiscal years to status of franchise outlets for the years to col. state col. year col. outlets at operating at start ofof year col. outlets opened terminations non renewals col. outlets reacquired by franchisorfr om franchisee ceased operatio wales new south wales other reasons col. outlets closed col. outlets sold to franchisee col. outlets operating at end of theof year kansas totals key louisiana medicinae doctor massachusetts michigan minnesota month new hampshire deleted cells deleted cells inserted cells merged cells deleted cells split cells deleted cells merged cells deleted cells new jersey new mexico table number projected openings as of december status of franchise outlets for the years to column state column franchise agreements signed but outlet not opened year arizona nyct floruit georgia ncin oh okks louisiana massachusetts pami minnesota scne new jersey deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. split cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. split cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. inserted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. inserted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. split cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. inserted cells. deleted cells. north carolina oh south dakota ok tnpa scottish tennessee texas utah virginia wisconsin vttotals split cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. inserted cells. split cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. inserted cells. split cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. split cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. inserted cells. split cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. inserted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. deleted cells. status of franchise outlets for the years to state year outlets at start of year outlets opened terminations non renewals reacquired by franchisor ceased operations other reasons outlets at end of the year virginia washington wisconsin total canada table number status of company owned outlets for years attached as exhibit to state year outlets at start of year outlets opened reacquired from franchisees outlets closed outlets sold to franchisees outlets at end of year none total table number this disclosure document is a projected openings as of december state franchise agreements signed but outlets not opened as of december projected new franchised outlets in projected new company owned outlets in arkansas colorado florida georgia illinois indiana kansas louisiana maryland michigan new jersey new york north carolina ohio oregon pennsylvania south carolina tennessee texas utah virginia wisconsin totals list of our unitthe painting franchisees as of december is the date of this disclosure document and attached as exhibit. is a list of the unit painting franchisees who have had their businessesbeen terminated cancelled not renewed or otherwise voluntarily or involuntarily ceased to do business under athe franchise agreement during the most recently completed fiscal year year ended december or who have not communicated with us within weeks of the issuance date forof this disclosure document is attached as exhibit. if you buy thisa painting franchise your contact information may be disclosed to other buyers when you leave the franchise system. during the last three fiscal years we have signed confidentiality clauses with certain current or former franchisees. confidentiality agreements in some instances current and former franchisees sign provisions restricting their ability to speak openly about their experience with the painting franchise system. you may wish to speak with current and former franchisees but be aware that not all such franchisees will be able to communicate with you. trademark specific franchisee organizations as of the date of this disclosure documentdisclosure document there are no trademark specific franchisee organizations associated with the painting system that we have created sponsored or endorsed and there are no independent trademark specific franchisee organizations that have asked to be included in our disclosure documentdisclosure document. item financial statements item financial statements attached to this disclosure document as exhibit fe are a our audited financial statements for the years endingfiscal year ended december december and.december and also attached in exhibit are the unaudited financial statements for the quarter ending september. these financial statements are prepared without an audit. prospective franchisees or sellers of franchises should be advised that no certified public accountant had audited these figures or expressed his her opinion with regard to the content or form our unaudited balance sheet profit and loss statement and statement of cash flows for the period between january and april. item. our fiscal year end is december of each year. item contracts contracts the painting llc franchise agreement with exhibits is attached to this disclosure document as exhibit. exhibit is miscellaneous information territory defined exhibit is following contractpersonal covenants exhibit is internet website and listings agreement exhibit is telephone listing agreement exhibit is franchisee information exhibit is guaranty agreement exhibit general release the painting llc nondisclosure agreement for confidential operations manual is attached to this disclosure document as exhibit. the painting llc franchisee disclosure questionnaire is attached to this disclosure document as exhibit. we provide no other contracts or agreements for your signature. itemexhibit franchise agreement item receipts receipts our copy and your copy of the franchise disclosure document receipt are located on the last pages of this disclosure document. please sign date and return copy of the receipt to us and keep the other copy for your records. remainder of page intentionally left blank exhibits exhibits and exhibit and to the painting llc franchise disclosure document list of state franchise administrators and agents for service of process list of state franchise administrators and agents for service of process listed here are the names addresses and telephone numbers of the state agencies having responsibility for franchising disclosure registration laws and for service of process. we may not yet be registered to sell franchises in any or all of these states. if a state is not listed we are not required to appoint an agent for service of process in that state in order to comply with the requirements of franchise laws. there may be states in addition to those listed below in which we have appointed an agent for service of process. there may also be additional agents appointed in some of the states listed. our agent for service of process for all states other than those listed below is paul flick peter jefferson parkway suite charlottesville virginia. state franchise administrator exhibit agent for service of process exhibit california commissioner california department of business oversight west fourth street suite los angeles california stevenson street suite san francisco california commissioner california department of business oversight west fourth street suite los angeles california stevenson street suite san francisco california street suite sacramento california hawaii commissioner of securities department of commerce consumer affairs business registration division merchant street room honolulu hi commissioner of securities illinois office of the attorney general franchise bureau south second street department of commerce consumer deleted cells deleted cells state franchise administrator exhibit agent for service of process exhibit springfield illinois department of commerce consumer affairs affairs indiana business registrationsecretary of state securities division west washington room indianapolis in business registration division merchant street room merchant street room honolulu hi honolulu hi marylandillinois office of the attorney general securities division street paul place baltimore medicinae doctor attorney general michigan michigan department of attorney general consumer protection division franchise section west ottawa street. mennen williams building street floor lansing michigan bureau south second street minnesota minnesota department of commerce th place east suite street paul minnesota new york south secondnys department of law investor protection bureau liberty street street floor new york new york springfield illinois north dakota north dakota securities department east boulevard avenue state capitol fifth floor bismarck north dakota springfield illinois rhode island department of department of business regulation deleted cells deleted cells deleted cells deleted cells state franchise administrator exhibit agent for service of process exhibit securities division pontiac avenue building cranston rhode island south dakota division of insurance securities regulation. euclid suite pierre south dakota virginiaindiana secretary of state corporation commission division of securities and retail franchising east main street th floor richmond virginia secretary of state washington department of financial institutions securities division road floor israel road. tumwater washington securities division wisconsin office of the commissioner of securities department of financial institutions west washington room avenue th floor madison wisconsin west washington room indianapolis in indianapolis in deleted cells deleted cells exhibit to painting llc franchise disclosure document list of agents for service of process state agent for service of process california commissioner of business oversight west fourth street suite los angeles california street suite sacramento california hawaii commissioner of securities merchant street room honolulu hi illinois attorney general south second street springfield illinois indiana secretary of state west washington room indianapolis in maryland office of the attorney general securities division street paul place baltimore medicinae doctor maryland securities commissioner securities division street paul place baltimore medicinae doctor michigan michigan department of attorney generalcommerce consumer protection division franchise section corporations and securities bureau paul flick peter jefferson parkway suite charlottesville virginia deleted cells deleted cells state agent for service of process law west ottawa street. mennen williams building street floor lansing michigan minnesota minnesota department of commerce th place east suite street paul minnesota minnesota commissioner of commerce th place east suite street paul minnesota new york nys department of law investor protection bureau liberty street street floor new york new york secretary of state state of new york one commerce plaza washington avenue albany new york north dakota north dakota securities department east boulevard avenue state capitol fifth floor bismarck north dakota north dakota securities department boulevard avenue state capitol fifth floor bismarck north dakota rhode island departmentdirector of department of business regulation securities division pontiac avenue building cranston rhode island director of department of business regulation securities division pontiac avenue building cranston rhode island south dakota division of insurance securities regulation. euclid suite pierre south dakota division of insurance securities regulation. euclid suite pierre south dakota deleted cells deleted cells state agent for service of process virginia state corporation commission division of securities and retail franchising east main street th floor richmond virginia clerk of the state corporation commission east main street street floor richmond virginia washington departmentdirector of department of financial institutions securities division road floor israel road. tumwater washington director of department of financial institutions securities division road floor wisconsin commissioner of securities west washington avenue th floor madison wisconsin deleted cells deleted cells tumwater washington israel road. tumwater washington wisconsin office of the commissioner of commissioner of securities securities west washington avenue th department of financial institutions floor west washington avenue th madison wisconsin floor madison wisconsin i exhibit to painting llc franchise disclosure document painting llc franchise agreement ii painting llc franchise agreement exhibit to the franchise disclosure document exhibit painting llc franchise agreement table of contents. grant of franchise. territory. term and renewal. fees. payments of fees late payment. records reports and audits. operations manual. modifications or improvements to the system. obligations of franchisee. point of sale system and information technology. advertising. counseling and advisory services and onsite assistance. post opening assistance. performance standards. training. marks. relationship of the parties. maintenance of credit standing. indemnification insurance and taxes. assignment. right of first refusal. restrictive covenants and confidentiality. termination. effect of and obligations upon termination. other business. ownership of franchisee. successors and third party beneficiaries. construction. interpretation and headings. notices. dispute resolution. costs and attorneys fees. waiver. severability. force majeure. timing. delegation by franchisor. withholding payments. cumulative rights. entire agreement. counterparts. review of agreement and franchisee acknowledgements. exhibit miscellaneous information territory defined exhibit personal covenants exhibit internet web sites and listings agreement exhibit telephone listing agreement exhibit franchisee information exhibit guaranty agreement exhibit general release exhibit ach authorization. protected territory. territorial protection. reservation of rights. initial term. renewal. franchise fee. royalties. marketing fund contribution. definition of gross sales. estimated gross sales if franchisee does not report. call center fee. technology fee. job proposal estimating software fee. payment of fees. automated bank draft. late payments and insufficient funds. application of payments. bookkeeping and accounting records. business records. financial reports. audit. credit and trade references. modification by franchisor. modification by franchisee. grand opening. marketing fundamental local advertising. advertising cooperatives. approval of advertising. ownership of advertising materials. opening assistance. initial training. failure to complete initial training program. training of employees. additional training. annual convention and conferences. ownership of the marks. use of the marks. internet and website use. infringement. substitute marks. independent contractor. public notices. employee statements and acknowledgments. contracts and representations. indemnification. insurance. taxes. assignment by franchisor. assignment by franchisee. death or disability of franchisee. approval of assignment. removal of general partner. franchisor disclosure to transferee. for sale advertising. transfer to a controlled entity. non solicitation. personal covenants of certain bound parties. agreements by other third parties. termination by franchisee. termination by franchisor without a cure period. management of business by franchisor. obligations upon termination or expiration. effect of expiration or termination. choice of law. consent to jurisdiction and venue for disputes. cumulative rights and remedies. limitation of damages and disclaimer. waiver of jury trial. service of process. receipt of this agreement and the franchise disclosure document. consultation by franchisee. acknowledgments painting llc franchise agreement franchise agreement this franchise agreement the agreement is made and entered into as of the date set forth on exhibit attached hereto the effective date exhibit and all other exhibits hereto are incorporated herein by this reference by and between paintingpainting llc a limited liability company organized under the laws of delaware with its principal place of business at the address set forth on exhibit hereto franchisor and the person or entity identified on exhibit as the franchisee franchisee. whereas franchisor through its expenditure of time effort and money has established a system of opening operating and promoting businesses the painting business or the business that provide a full range of painting and decorating and wall finishing services for both exterior and interior portions of residences and light commercial buildings the authorized services under the name painting using equipment tools materials methods procedures and the quality standards as specified in the painting methods of operationoperations manual as defined below as amended from time to time the painting system whereas the painting system is identified by certain trade names trademarks service marks logos emblems insignia and signs developed for use including the service mark painting painting and the painting logo and design as franchisor now designates and may hereafter designate in connection with the painting system collectively the marks whereas franchisee recognizes the value and benefits to be derived from utilizing the painting system and desires to own and operate a painting franchise in a manner that is consistent with and will promote paintingsfranchisor standards of quality and goodwill and paintingfranchisor in reliance on the representations made by franchisee is willing to provide certain training materials equipment and ongoing assistance relating to the painting system and to grant franchisee the right to operate an painting business under the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth which terms are acceptable to franchisee and are acknowledged by the parties to be material and reasonable. now therefore for and in consideration of the foregoing premises and the covenants and agreements contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged franchisor and franchisee hereby agree as follows. grant of franchise. during the term of this agreement franchisor hereby grants to franchisee the non exclusive right and license and franchisee undertakes the obligation to develop and operate a painting business and to use solely in connection therewith the marks and the painting system in accordance with the terms and conditions of this agreement only within the protected territory as defined below. franchisee agrees to use the marks and painting system as they are changed improved and further developed by franchisor from time to time. unless otherwise agreed to in writing by franchisor franchisee has three months from the effective date to complete the initial training as required by section. and to commence operation of the business. franchisee must obtain franchisor written approval prior to commencing operation of the business. territory. protected territory. franchisee shall only have the right to use the marks and the painting system in the residential geographic area described on exhibit attached hereto the protected territory. the protected territory shall include not less than two hundred thousand people as of the date of this agreement. the protected territory may be further defined or delineated in a writing map or drawing attached to this agreement and signed by franchisee and franchisor.the protected territory shall be defined as an area encompassing the zip codes listed on exhibit. in the event that the united states postal service modifies any of the zip codes encompassed by the protected territory or which represent the area included the protected territory franchisor may modify the protected territory to account for such zip code modification. the modified protected territory may result in fewer people being included in or a smaller geographic area being represented by the protected territory. franchisee shall not promote the business outside of the protected territory except in cooperation with other franchisees of franchisor as specified in section. herein nor may franchisee provide any painting services at any location outside the protected territory except with the written permission of franchisor. and if such permission is granted such permission shall not be deemed to grant franchisee general ongoing or permanent rights to service that customer or other customers outside of the protected territory. franchisee agrees to open only one business within the protected territory and further agrees not to relocate the business within the protected territory without prior written consent from franchisor. the location of the business shall either be franchisee home office or an office location selected by franchisee and approved by franchisor. territorial protection. subject to sections. and. during the term of this agreement franchisor shall not nor shall franchisor license any person other than franchisee to establish and operate a business providing system services to residential or light commercial customers within the protected territory using the marks or the painting system. moreover franchisor agrees that except with regard to actual or prospective customers designated as national accounts as defined and governed by section. herein franchisor will refer to franchisee all requests for painting system services to be provided at physical locations within the protected territory. the term light commercial means buildings and facilities that are similar in size and scope to single family residences. except as provided herein franchisee has no exclusive territorial rights protected territory or other right to exclude control or impose conditions on franchisor activities or on the location development or operation of other or future franchises under the marks. reservation of rights. franchisor retains the right in its sole discretion to i own and operate and license to others the right to own and operate painting businesses outside of yourthe protected territory using the marks or any other marks wefranchisor may designate ii own and operate and license to others the right to own and operate similar businesses under different names inside or outside of the protected territory under different marks iii use the marks and system in connection with conducting marketing and promotional activities within or outside of the protected territory including marketing and promotional activities related to the solicitation of national accounts as defined in section. below iii iv use the marks and system to offer services and products promotional and marketing efforts or related items or in alternative channels of distribution including the sale of goods or services through wholesale and retail stores via the internet through mail order catalog and via direct marketing through telephone television or radio within or outside of yourthe protected territory iv develop or become associated with other concepts including dual branding relationships and or operation of other franchise systems whether or not using the painting system and or the marks and award franchises under other concepts for locations anywhere virgin islands acquire be acquired by merge affiliate with or engage in any transaction with other businesses whether competitive or not with units located anywhere these transactions and in the event that such transaction involves the operation or license of a business in the protected territory may include painting franchise disclosure document arrangements involving competing outlets and brand conversionsthe conversion such a business to or fromone operated under the painting marks and the system and virgin islands vii engage in any other activity action or undertaking that franchisor is not expressly prohibited from taking under this agreement. national accounts. i the term national account means any customerfranchisor may designate any customer or prospective customer as a national account and to negotiate and enter into agreements to provide painting products and or services to national accounts including locations within the protected territory. the term national account means any customer or prospective customer which on its own behalf or through agents franchisees or other third parties owns manages or controls buildings or dwellings in more than one location at least one of which is not situated within any one particular franchisee protected territory. in other words if a customer or prospective customer controls two buildings and one is in franchisee protected territory while the other is not the customer qualifies as a national account. any dispute as to whether a particular customer is a national account shall be determined by franchisor in its sole and absolute discretion. i franchisor shall have the right on behalf of itself its affiliates franchisee and or other franchisees utilizing the marks to designate any client as a national account customer and to negotiate and enter into agreements to provide painting products and or services to multiple locations of such national account customers including locations within the protected territory. ii following the execution of a contract with or the acceptance of a bid by a national account customer that contemplates the provision of painting services to one or more national account customer location within the protected territory franchisor will if franchisee is in substantial compliance with the terms of this agreement and any addendum provide franchisee with a copy of such contract or bid to franchisee and offer franchisee the option to perform such services pursuant to the terms and conditions of same provided that franchisee must accept such option within ten days of its receipt of such notice. iii if franchisee elects not to provide services to a national account customer in conformity with the terms of the national account contract or fails to make an election within the time specified by franchisor franchisor shall have the right exercisable in its sole discretion to a provide directly through its affiliates or any other franchisee utilizing the marks painting products and or services to the national account customer location within the protected territory on the terms and conditions contained in the bid or contract between franchisor and the national account customer and or contract with another party to provide such painting products and or services to the national account customer location within the protected territory on the terms and conditions contained in the bid or contract between franchisor and the national account customer utilizing the marks or any other proprietary marks. iv if any national account informs franchisor that franchisee services do not meet such national account standards or selection criteria franchisor may in its sole discretion offer the opportunity to service such national account to any other franchisee on the terms and conditions contained in the bid or contract between franchisor and the national account. iv neither the direct provision by franchisor or a franchisee or agent of franchisor of painting products and or services to national account customers as authorized in sectionsections. iii a or. iv a above nor franchisor contracting with another party to provide such services as authorized in section. iviii or. iv above shall constitute a violation by franchisor of section. above even if such services are delivered within the protected territory. term and renewal. initial term. unless terminated earlier in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth herein this agreement and the franchise granted hereunder shall have an initial term of ten years commencing on the effective date the initial term. renewal. upon the expiration of the initial term franchisee shall have the right to renew the franchise granted hereunder for up to two successive ten year periods provided that all of the following conditions are met i franchisee gives franchisor written notice of its election to renew the franchise not less than six months nor more than nine months prior to the expiration of the initial term ii franchisee is not when notice is given and does not become prior to the expiration of the initial term in default of any provision of this agreement or any other agreement between franchisee and franchisor or its subsidiaries or affiliates or with any other creditor or supplier of the business lessor of the vehicles or lessor or sublessor of any real property that franchisee may lease in connection with the business and franchisee shall have faithfully performed its obligations undermust have consistently complied with all the terms and conditions of this agreement and all such other agreements throughout their terms iii franchisee shall execute at franchisor option franchisor then current form of franchise agreement which franchise agreement shall supersede in all respects the terms and conditions of this agreement and may contain terms and conditions substantially different from those set forth herein including without limitation a additional fees and or an increase in royalties call center fees technology fees or marketing fund contributions as such terms are hereinafter defined and or a change in the size or composition of the protected territory however the renewal franchise agreement shall only provide for the number of additional renewal terms called for by this agreement and shall contain mandatory minimum annual royaltiesperiodic royalty requirements that reflect in franchisor determination take into account the then current market the maturity of the business and its record of gross sales during the prior term iv franchisee shall pay a renewal fee equal to tentwenty five percent of the then current franchise fee as such term is hereinafter defined if aor fifteen thousand whichever is greater provided however that franchisee shall not also be required to pay an initial franchise fee under such renewal fee is charged by franchisorfranchise agreement franchisee shall complete at its own expense and to franchisor satisfaction all maintenance updating refurbishing and replacement of the vehicles and all maintenance refurnishing renovation modernizing and remodeling of the business as franchisor shall reasonably require including but not limited to purchasing additional vehicles and installation of new equipment or systems so as to reflect the current image and standards of the painting business and the vehicles virgin islands franchisee shall be current in the payment of all obligations to franchisor and to any of its affiliates and subsidiaries as well as lessors vendors and suppliers of the business and must have timely met those obligations throughout the term of this agreement vii prior to renewal franchisee and or franchisee supervisory and operational manager shall at franchisee expense attend and successfully complete to franchisor reasonable satisfaction any retraining program franchisor may require and viii franchisee must meet franchisor then current qualification requirement and viii ix franchisee and its owners shall execute a general release in a form satisfactory toprescribed by franchisor of any and all claims it may have against franchisor including any affiliates or subsidiaries and its and their officers directors shareholders managers members partners employees and agents. fees. franchise fee. upon signing the franchise agreement franchisee shall pay to franchisor by wire transfer a franchise fee of as identified on exhibit. the franchise fee for the license. the franchise fee shall be fully earned by franchisor and shall be nonrefundable when paid and is made in consideration of i the administrative and other expenses incurred by franchisor in entering into this agreement ii franchisor lost or deferred opportunity to enter into this agreement with others and iii franchisor execution of this agreement and shall be nonrefundable. royalties. during the term of this agreement franchisee shall pay to franchisor a non refundable royalty the royalty royalty fee or royalties out of the gross sales as herein defined arising from or in connection with the operation of the business equal to the greater of six percent of gross sales or a minimum royalty fee as set forth in the table below year of operation of franchise monthlyweekly minimum royalty fee year. year. year. year. years and after. i royalties are due and payable weekly throughout the entire term of this agreement commencing on the earlier of franchisee commencement of operations or a date months after the franchisee begins presaleseffective date even if the business has no revenue. franchisor has the right to change the payment due date or change the frequency of payment so long as franchisor provides franchisee at least sixty days advance notice of such changes. royalties shall be due and payable weekly as provided in section. below. ii if at any time a state or other governmental authority shall imposeimposes a tax on the gross sales or any other service receipts of franchisor but excluding any tax based on franchisor net income the royalties rateroyalty fee shall be increased so that the net royalties payable to franchisor after payment of such tax shall equal to the applicable rate charged of franchisee gross sales. moreover if iii if franchisee breaches the agreement and does not cure the breach within the time set forth in franchisor notice of default franchisee shall pay franchisor royaltiesroyalties at the rate of ten percent of gross sales until such time as the default at issue is cured or franchisor at its sole discretion chooses to terminate this agreement. the royalties paid or owing to franchisor with respect to the period in which franchisee is in breach are referred to as breaching royalties. iv franchisor and franchisee agree that the royalties described herein shall be in consideration of franchisee use pursuant to this agreement of such business processes trade secrets know how trade names trademarks service marks logos emblems trade dress and the intellectual property identified from time to time by franchisor as comprising the system. franchisee acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to pay the royalties described herein shall not be predicated or conditioned upon the validity of any trademark or copyright claimed by franchisor and used in the system. franchisee acknowledges and agrees that no portion of the royalties shall be attributable to any specific item of intellectual property such as a copyright or trademark as distinct from the system. in the event that a court of competent jurisdiction determines that an apportionment of the royalties is necessary or appropriate any copyright license granted to franchisee hereunder shall be deemed to be royalty free and made in consideration of the goodwill generated by franchisee proper use of the marks and system. marketing fund contribution. marketing fund contribution. franchisee shall pay weekly to the marketing advertising and promotion fund for the system marketing fund an advertising fee in an amount specified by franchisor marketing fund contribution which shall not exceed two percent of the preceding week gross sales. the marketing fund shall be maintained and administered by franchisor or its designee in accordance with the provisions contained in section. and marketing fund contributions shall be due and payable weekly as provided in section. below. definition of gross sales. as used in this agreement gross sales means the total of all monies and receipts derived by franchisee from sale of products or services in connection with the business and from all other business using the marks whether evidenced by cash credit check gift certificate gift card script or other property or services including without limitation all proceeds received from any business interruption insurance policy. moreover gross sales shall include all commissions finder fees referral fees construction management fees or other compensation received by franchisee arising in any way from the operations of the business. for purposes of this paragraph the term franchisee includes its owners and officers as well as any business entity through which the business is operated. gross sales does not include i promotional allowances or rebates paid to franchisee in connection with its purchase of products or supplies ii sales use merchants or other taxes measured on the basis of the gross revenues of the business imposed by governmental authorities directly on sales or use and collected from customers provided that the taxes are added to the selling price of franchisee goods and services and are in fact paid by franchisee to the appropriate governmental authorities or iii the value of any coupons duly issued and approved by franchisor or any bona fide discounts or customer refunds approved by franchisor. for purposes of reporting gross sales all revenues must be recorded upon receipt and any approved refunds to customers shall be deducted from revenues when the refund is tendered. estimated gross sales if franchisee does not report. if franchisee fails to submit to franchisor by. eastern time on tuesday of each week a statementstatement of gross sales for the prior week ending on saturday the business week as required by section. i then franchisee will be assessed a late charge per delinquent operating statement per week or part thereof until each delinquent operating statement has been deliveredsubmitted. in addition if franchisee fails to timely submit a statement of gross sales for any period franchisor may for the delinquent operating statement is not delivered by. eastern time on the wednesday of the applicable week then purposes of calculating and collecting any payments due under sections and hereof estimate the amount to be paid pursuant to section. and drawn against of franchisee bank account pursuant to section. for the royalties call center fee technology fee and marketing fund contributions with respect to the prior business week will be thegross sales for such period based on any information in its possession that it believes allows it to approximate the actual amount drawn the previous week plus as an estimate of the prior business week royalties call center fee technology fee and marketing fund contributions. these provisions may not be enforced if the delay in providing the operating report was caused by franchisor andof gross sales achieved by franchisee for such period. franchisor will not unreasonably withhold its consent for reasonable extensions in submitting the statementof time to submit a statement of gross sales as long as all royalty fees and other continuing fees are paid by their due date. call center fee. franchisee shall pay franchisor a per week or of gross sales per week whichever is greater call center fee the call center fee. the call center fee will be collected weekly as of the date of this agreement the call center fee is limited to a maximum of per week. in addition franchisee shall pay per call received by the call center relating to appointments missed by franchisee or service complaints. franchisor reserves the right to modify or increase the minimum or maximum amounts calculation or timing of the call center fee periodically during the term of this agreement upon written notice to franchisee. technology fee.fees. franchisee shall pay franchisor an initial technology feetechnology fee of. upon signing this agreement and for technology solutions to be used in the operation of the franchised business. during the term of the agreement franchisee shall also pay franchisor a weekly technology fee of. the the technology fee. as of the date of this agreement the technology fee island franchisor reserves the right to modify or increase the amount calculation or timing of the technology fee. periodically during the term of this agreement upon written notice to franchisee. job proposal estimating software fee. franchisee shall pay to the approved supplier designated by franchisor the fee charged by the supplier for the software that will assistassists in estimating the cost of potential jobs currently. per month. the amount and timing of these fees are determined by the approved supplier and may vary during the term. payments of fees late payment. payment of fees. franchisee shall pay to franchisor by. eastern time on tuesday of each week the royalties call center fee technology fee and marketing fund contributions due to the franchisor under this agreement with respect to the prior week. royalties call center fees technology fees and marketing fund contributions shall beare nonrefundable. if the date for any payment hereunder falls on a day on which commercial banks are authorized or required by law to close in the state where franchisor maintains its principal place of business such payment shall be made on the next day during which such commercial banks are open for business. franchisor has the right to change the payment due date or change the frequency of payment so long as franchisor provides franchisee at least sixty days advance notice of such changes. automated bank draft. franchisee understands and agrees that franchisor reserves the right and may require in its sole discretion that all royalties call center fees technology fees marketing fund contributions advertising cooperative as defined below contributions and other fees or contributions required to be paid to franchisor or any advertising cooperative hereunder must be paid by automated bank draft or other reasonable means necessary to ensure payment of such fees are received by franchisor or the appropriate advertising cooperative. as franchisor determines appropriate from time to time. franchisee must execute the ach authorization which is attached to this agreement as exhibit. franchisee agrees to comply with franchisor payment instructions and to execute such other documents as franchisor may request from time to time to provide franchisee unconditional and irrevocable authority and direction to its bank authorizing and directing franchisee bank to pay and deposit directly to the account designated by franchisor all royalties call center fees technology fees marketing fund contribution advertising cooperative contributions and other fees or contributions due hereunder. every week franchisee shall make deposits to the account sufficient to cover amounts owed to franchisor for the preceding week just ended. franchisee shall execute any documents franchisor or franchisee bank requires to establish and implement the automated bank draft system. once such a system is established franchisee shall not close the account from which automated bank drafts are being withdrawn without franchisor written consent. late payments and insufficient funds. all overdue payments for royalties call center fees technology fees marketing fund contributions and other fees required to be paid hereunder shall bear interest from the date due at the rate of. per month or the highest rate permitted by law whichever is less. interest shall accrue on all late payments regardless of whether franchisor exercises its right to terminate this agreement as provided for herein. in addition to its right to charge interest as provided herein franchisor may charge franchisee a late payment fee or the maximum amount permitted by applicable law for all such overdue payments and a insufficient funds fee for each check automated bank draft payment or other payment method that is not honored by franchisee financial institution. franchisee acknowledges that franchisor has the right to set off amounts franchisee owes franchisor against any amounts franchisor may owe franchisee. application of payments. notwithstanding any designation by franchisee to the contrary all payments made by franchisee hereunder will be applied by franchisor at its discretion to any of franchisee past due indebtedness. records reports and audits. bookkeeping and accounting records. franchisee shall establish and maintain bookkeeping accounting and financial and or operations records for the business conforming to such requirements as are prescribed by franchisor in the operations manual as defined below from time to time the accounting records. in the event that franchisor establishes or modifies a computerized bookkeeping or accounting and or operations system for its franchisees franchisee agrees to utilize such systems pay all reasonable fees charged by franchisorsfranchisor or others for the use of such systems purchase or lease all computer hardware and software required for such systems and permit franchisor to access such records by computer from a remote location. franchisee acknowledges and agrees that if franchisor is required or permitted by statute rule regulation or any other legal requirement to disclose any information regarding franchisee or the operation of the business including without limitation earnings or other financial information franchisor shall be entitled to disclose such information. in addition franchisee hereby expressly permits franchisor to disclose any such information to potential purchasers and their employees agents and representatives of franchisor or the business in connection with the sale or transfer of any equity interests or assets of franchisor franchisee or the business or any merger reorganization or similar restructuring of franchisor. business records. franchisee agrees to establish and maintain a record keeping system for the business conforming to such requirements as are prescribed by franchisor in its operations manual from time to time the business records. among other things such record keeping system shall include a complete record of all work performed in connection with the business including copies of all estimates proposals and contracts and a complete listing of all work performed by any sub contractors engaged by franchisee including copies of all contracts invoices or statements. financial and operations reports. franchisee must provide franchisor with thosesuch periodic financial and operations reports in the form and manner required by franchisor from time to time the financial reports. franchisee current reporting obligations include the following i statement of gross sales for the prior business week in the form required by franchisor to be delivered with each payment of the royalties call center fee technology fee and marketing fund contribution by no later than by. eastern time on tuesday of each week ii monthly unaudited balance sheet and profit and loss statement in a form satisfactory to franchisor covering franchisee business for the prior month and fiscal year to date all of which shall be certified by franchisee as true and correct and delivered to franchisor no later than the street day of each month iii annual financial statements compiled or reviewed by an independent certified public accountant in a form satisfactory to franchisor no later than january th of the year after the most recently completed fiscal year which shall include a statement of income and retained earnings a statement of cash flows and a balance sheet of franchisee all for the fiscal year then ended. franchisor shall have the right at any time to require audited annual statements to be provided to it provided that franchisor shall reimburse franchisee for its increased accounting fees attributable to franchisor imposition of this requirement iv an annual copy of franchisee signed or dakota south dakota tax form and or a schedule federal tax filing concerning the business as filed with the internal revenue service or any forms which take the place of those forms and all other federal state and local sales use and income tax reports franchisee is required to file relating to the business all to be delivered within days after filing and monthly statement of local advertising expenditures made pursuant to section. below for each calendar quarter and fiscal year to date in a form satisfactory to franchisor to be delivered within thirty days afterto franchisor no later than the end street day of each calendar quartermonth and virgin islands all reports or other information required to be submitted under this section. shall be submitted to the attention of franchisor franchiseaccounting department. if any of the reports or other information required to be given to franchisor in accordance with this section are not received by franchisor by the required deadline franchisor may charge franchisee a late submission fee equal to. per report per week. inspection and audit. franchisor through its employees and any agents designated by franchisor from time to time may at any time during business hours and without prior notice to franchisee enter and inspect the assets used in connection with the business and examine the accounting records business records all financial reports that franchisee is required to submit under section. including but not limited to all tax returns concerning the business as well as all documents relating thereto and any other information records or properties relating to the ownership management or operation of the business to determine whether franchisee has complied with the terms of this agreement. franchisor shall also have the right to videotape photograph or otherwise record the operation of the business as part of any such inspection. franchisee shall cooperate with franchisor in any such inspection and shall make franchisee personnel and assets available to franchisor as may be necessary to carry out such inspection. any such inspection shall be made at franchisor expense provided that if such inspection is necessitated by franchisee repeated or continuing failure to comply with any provision of this agreement franchisor may charge franchisee for the costs of making such inspection including without limitation the cost of travel meals and lodging for and compensation of franchisor employees and agents. without limiting the foregoing franchisor may audit or cause to be audited any statement franchisee is required to submit pursuant to section. and franchisor may review or cause to be reviewed the records maintained by any bank or other financial institution used by franchisee in connection with the business. if any such audit or review discloses an understatement of the gross sales for any period or periods franchisee shall pay to franchisor within days after demand for payment is made all additional royalties call center fees technology fees marketing fund contributions or other amounts required to be paid based upon the results of such audit or review plus interest from the date such amount was due until paid at the rate of. per month or the maximum rate permitted by law whichever is less. in addition if such understatement for any period or periods is three percent or more of the gross sales for such period or periods franchisee shall reimburse franchisor for the cost of such audit or review including without limitation the charges of any independent accountant and the cost of travel meals and lodging for and compensation of such accountant and employees or other agents of franchisor. moreover in addition to any other rights it may have franchisor may conduct such further periodic audits and or examinations of franchisee books and records as franchisor reasonably deems necessary for up to two years thereafter and the costs for such further audits and or examination as described herein shall be at franchisee sole expense. in order to verify the information supplied by the franchisee franchisor may reconstruct franchisee sales through any reasonable method of analyzing and reconstructing sales. franchisee agrees to accept any such reconstruction of sales unless franchisee within days from the date of the notice of understatement or variance provides evidence of franchisee sales during the relevant period in a form satisfactory to franchisor. the foregoing remedies shall be in addition to any other remedies franchisor may have and this section. shall survive the expiration or any earlier termination of this agreement. credit and trade references. franchisee hereby authorizes franchisor to make inquiries of franchisee bankers suppliers and other trade creditors as to their dealings with franchisee in relation to the business to discuss the affairs finances and accounts of the business and to obtain information and copies of invoices relating to sales or other dealings with all such persons and franchisee in any way relating to the business. by its execution hereof franchisee authorizes and directs such bankers suppliers and other trade creditors to discuss with franchisor the affairs finances and accounts of the business. moreover franchisee agrees upon the request of franchisor to execute and deliver such documents as are required to permit such bankers suppliers or other trade creditors to release or disclose any such information and or documents to franchisor. operations manual during the term of this agreement franchisor will loan to franchisee one copy of or provide franchisee with electronic access to franchisor confidential operations manual the operations manual which may consist of printed manuals computerized documents or software information provided on the internet or an extranet audiotapes videotapes or any other medium franchisor adopts periodically for use with the painting system and designates as part of the operations manual. the operations manual will contain information and specifications concerning the mandatory standards and specifications for the development and operation of the business and any other information and advice franchisor may periodically provide to its franchisees. franchisor may update and change the operations manual periodically to reflect changes in the painting system and the operating requirements applicable to painting businesses and franchisee expressly agrees to comply with each requirement within such reasonable time as franchisor may require or if no time is specified within days after receiving notification of the requirement. the cost of implementing changes updates or modifications to the system as called for in the operations manual shall be borne exclusively by franchisee. franchisee shall at all times ensure that its copy of the operations manual and any other confidential materials supplied by franchisor to franchisee are kept current and up to date. franchisee must keep any printed operations manual in a secure location at the business and must restrict employee access to the operations manual on a need to know basis and take reasonable steps to prevent unauthorized disclosure or copying of any information in any printed or computerized operations manual. if franchisor and franchisee have any disagreement about the most current contents of the operations manual franchisor master copy of the operations manual will control. upon the expiration or termination of this agreement for any reason franchisee must return all copies of the operations manual to franchisor and upon franchisor request certify to franchisor that franchisee has not kept any copies in any medium. the operations manual is confidential copyrighted and franchisor exclusive property. modifications or improvements to the painting system. modification by franchisor. franchisee recognizes and agrees that from time to time hereafter franchisor shall change modify or improve aspects of the painting system including without limitation modifications to the operations manual the required vehicle equipment tools software processes and systems to support the business the products and services offered for sale the signage the presentation and usage of the marks and the adoption and use of new modified or substituted marks or other proprietary materials. franchisee agrees to accept use and or display for the purposes of this agreement any such changes modifications or improvements to the painting system including without limitation the adoption of new modified or substituted marks as if they were part of the painting system as of the effective date and franchisee agrees to make such expenditures as such changes modifications or improvements to the painting system may require. for purposes of this agreement all references to the painting system shall include such future changes modifications and improvements. any required expenditure for changes or upgrades to the system shall be in addition to expenditures for repairs and maintenance as required in this agreement. however franchisor will not require franchisee to replace any previously approved vehicle for three years after franchisee places it into service unless franchisee fails to properly maintain the vehicle or there is a substantial safety or mechanical defect in the vehicle. modification by franchisee. if franchisee develops any new modification concept process improvement or slogan in the operation or promotion of the business or to the painting system the same shall be deemed a work made for hire and franchisee shall promptly notify franchisor of and provide franchisor with all necessary information regarding such modification concept process improvement or slogan. franchisee acknowledges that any such modification concept process improvement or slogan shall become franchisor sole and exclusive property and that franchisor may use or allow other franchisees to use the same in connection with the painting system or the operation of painting businesses provided however that franchisor will provide franchisee with reasonable without providing any compensation if franchisor decides to incorporate into the painting system a substantial modification concept process or improvement or any slogan or derivative service mark developed by franchisee. obligations of franchisee franchisee recognizes the mutual benefit to franchisee franchisor and other franchisees of the painting system of the uniformity of the appearance services products and advertising of the painting system and acknowledges and agrees that such uniformities are necessary for the successful operation of painting businesses. to this end franchisee covenants and warrants with respect to the operation of the business that franchisee and its employees and agents will comply with all of the requirements of the painting system and the operations manual and will throughout the term of this agreement. standards specifications. operate the business and sell and offer all products and services sold or offered therebyhereby in accordance with the specifications standards business practices and policies of franchisor now in effect or hereafter promulgated and comply with all requirements of franchisor the painting system and the operations manual as they are now or hereafter established including without limitation any customer service marketing environmental safety and cleanliness standards and specifications. franchisor and its duly authorized representatives shall have the right if they so elect at all reasonable times to inspect the business to ensure that franchisee is complying with such specifications standards business practices and procedures policies and requirements and to test and inspect any and all equipment tools systems and products used in connection with the operation of the business including without limitation the vehicle used by franchisee and its agents in operating the business vehicles. if franchisee in any way shall fail to maintain the standards of quality for the products and services as established by franchisor from time to time franchisor shall notify franchisee in writing of the failure and give franchisee days in which to cure such failure. if franchisee fails to cure such failure within such day period franchisor shall in addition to any other remedy available to it have the right to assign to the business such persons as it deems necessary for the training of franchisee employees to ensure that the standards of quality for the products and services are maintained. franchisee shall reimburse franchisor for all costs associated with providing such personnel including costs of transportation meals lodging salaries wages and other compensation including fringe benefits. offer and sell all products and services at the prices franchisor may specify from time to time in its reasonable business judgment. pricing. franchisor may from time to time suggest pricing policies. franchisee has the sole and exclusive right to set the minimum prices franchisee charges for the products and services offered by franchisee. suggested pricing policies are not mandatory. franchisor retains the right to establish maximum prices to be charged by franchisee for sales promotions to the extent permitted by law. maintenance appearance. maintain at all times at its expense the business and the vehicles machinery equipment and tools and if franchisee leases or owns any real property in connection with the business any fixtures furnishings furniture dcor premises parking areas landscape areas and interior and exterior signs in an excellent clean attractive and safe condition in conformity with the operations manual and franchisor high standards and public image. franchisee shall promptly make all repairs and replacements thereto as may be required to keep the business and the vehicles in the highest degree of safety repair and condition and to maintain maximum efficiency and productivity and to remain in compliance with franchisor standards. if franchisor changes its image or standards of operation with respect to the business or the vehicles franchisee expressly agrees to comply at its expense with each change within such reasonable time as franchisor may require or if no time is specified within days after receiving notification of the change. the cost of replacing the vehicles machinery equipment and tools shall be borne exclusively by franchisee. compliance with laws. comply with all applicable laws rules ordinances and regulations that affect or otherwise concern the business or the vehicles including without limitation vehicle registration zoning disability access signage fire and safety security fictitious name registrations sales tax registration environmental regulations warranty contract requirements and health and sanitation. franchisee will be solely responsible for obtaining any and all licenses and permits required to operate the business and the vehicles including but not limited to home improvement contractor licenses and maintaining records demonstrating such compliance. franchisor will not provide legal advice to franchisee or otherwise be responsible to franchisee for determining the applicability of or compliance with applicable law and franchisee acknowledges and agrees that any communication between franchisor and franchisee relating to compliance with any of these laws shall be conclusively presumed to be only general educational information and that franchisee failure to obtain specific professional third party advice on such issues shall be unreasonable. franchisee must immediately forward to franchisor any inspection reports or correspondence stating that franchisee is not in compliance with any such laws rules ordinances and regulations to franchisor within hours of franchisee receipt of such report or correspondence. legal proceedings. franchisee will notify franchisor in writing within ten days of the commencement of any action suit or proceedings and of the issuance of any order writings injunction award or decree of any court agency or other governmental instrumentality against franchisee or any of franchisee properties or of which franchisee becomes aware which may adversely affect the franchisee financial condition or ability to meet its obligations hereunder. capacity efficiency. maintain sufficient inventories and employ sufficient qualified employees to operate the business at its maximum capacity and efficiency at such hours or days as franchisor shall designate or approve in the operations manual or otherwise and operate the business for such hours or days so designated or approved by franchisor. franchisee acknowledges that it is solely responsible for all aspects of hiring compensating and when necessary firing its employees. uniforms. require all employees of the business to wear apparel conforming to the specifications design and standards franchisor may from time to time designate in the operations manual or otherwise. employee conduct appearance. require all employees of the business to conduct themselves at all times in a competent and courteous manner and use best efforts to ensure that its employees maintain a neat and clean appearance and render competent sober and courteous service to customers of the business. franchisor shall have no control over franchisee employees including without limitation work hours wages hiring or firing. customer service. franchisee acknowledges that the quality of customer service and every detail of appearance and demeanor of franchisee and its employees is material to this agreement and the relationship created hereby. therefore franchisee shall endeavor tomust maintain high standards of quality and service in the operation of the business. franchisee shall at all times give prompt courteous and efficient service to customers of the business. and franchisor may periodically adopt or modify standards relating to any aspect of customer service and franchisee agrees to comply with any such standards. the business shall in all dealings with its customers vendors and the general public adhere to the highest standards of honesty fair dealing and ethical conduct. if franchisor deems that franchisee did not fairly handle or resolve in a manner that meets franchisor standards a customer complaint franchisor has the right to intervene and satisfy theaddress such customer. complaint as franchisor may deem appropriate. franchisor has the right to terminate this agreement for repeated violationviolations of this section. franchisee shall reimburse franchisor for all costs incurred by franchisor in providing or arranging service for a customer of the business pursuant to this section. approved suppliers and rebates. use only those products supplies vehicles equipment and tools that conform to the standards and specifications designated by franchisor in the operations manual or otherwise. from time to time franchisor may designate approved suppliers including itself or its affiliates whose enumerated products or services shall be deemed to satisfy franchisor standards. unless otherwise required by franchisor or if franchisor designates an exclusive designated supplier franchisee may purchase any and all products supplies vehicles equipment and tools from any available source so long as such products supplies vehicles equipment and tools conform to the standards and specifications established by franchisor. if franchisor designates itself as a supplier franchisor has the right to earn a profit on any items it supplies. franchisor and its affiliates may receive payments discounts or other consideration from suppliers in consideration of such suppliers dealings with franchisee and or the system of painting franchisees and may use all amounts received by it without restriction. franchisor is not required to give franchisee an accounting of supplier payments or to share the benefit of supplier payments with franchisee or other painting franchisees. moreover franchisee acknowledges and agrees that painting will not be liable for any losses financial or otherwise or damages including consequential or special damages resulting from any delay in delivery or availability of any of the products or services designated by painting painting. franchisee is responsible for verifying and ensuring the any products or services it uses in the operation of the business comply with applicable law. in the event that franchisee determines that any product of an approved or designated supplier does not comply with applicable law franchisee may propose an alternate product or supplier in writing and franchisor shall approve or disapprove such alternate product or supplier within business days. trade dress. prominently display on the vehicles or on any real property owned or leased by franchisee in connection with the business the name painting painting using signs decals or paint patterns of such nature form color number location and size and containing such material as franchisor may from time to time reasonably direct or approve in writing and not display on the vehicles or in the business or elsewhere any sign decal or advertising media of any kind to which franchisor reasonably objects. franchisor or its authorized representatives may at any time during normal business hours inspect the vehicles or enter the business and remove any objectionable signs decals or advertising media. vehicles exclusively for use in business. use franchisee best and continuing efforts to fully promote and develop the business and use the vehicles only for the purposes designated in this agreement and avoid any activities that would conflict or interfere with or be detrimental to such purposes. products services offered. sell or offer only those products and services from the vehicles or the business specified by franchisor from time to time in the operations manual or otherwise. full time best efforts. ensure that an individual who has completed the initial training program described in section. below the manager devotes his or her full time efforts to the management of the day to day operation of the business. full time means the expenditure of at least thirty five hours per week excluding vacation sick leave and similar absences. franchisee shall keep franchisor informed in writing at all times of the identity of its manager. participation in promotions. participate in all national regional or local advertising and promotional activities franchisor requires. franchisee understands that franchisor implements promotions such as discount coupons and other activities intended to enhance customer awareness for painting businesses on a national regional or local level. franchisee understands that its participation in these programs is essential to its success and that its participation may entail some cost to franchisee. franchisee agrees that franchisor has no obligation to reimburse franchisee for any costs it incurs due to its mandatory participation in these special promotional programs. paying vendors. franchisee will pay on a timely basis for all supplies materials and expenses incurred in the operation of the business. franchisee is aware that it is responsible for all operating selling and general and administrative expenses of the business and that failure to make prompt payments to its suppliers vendors contractors or employees may cause irreparable harm to the reputation and credit of franchisor and other franchisees. required warranty. the franchisee will offer and honor a two year warranty or longer if based on and commensurate with manufacturer warranty on all materials and workmanship performed by franchisee for each of its customers at its own cost including all costs regarding franchisee obligations upon termination of this agreement as the terms of such warranty may be established by franchisor from time to time. and subject to whatever requirements may apply under applicable law. franchisee shall cooperate with painting in all warranty claims and shall make no statements or admissions as to liability. franchisee shall promptly report all warranty claims to painting and shall undertake all warranty workmanship under the marks. in the event that franchisee fails to honor rejects or otherwise respond to a customer warranty claim for which franchisor in the exercise of its business judgment determines that coverage is required or appropriate in order to protect or preserve the goodwill in the marks or the reputation of franchisor franchisee or the system franchisor shall have the right to resolve such claim and franchisee shall reimburse franchisor any cost related to resolving such claim immediately on demand which may be initiated by franchisor as provided in section. above. in addition any rejection or failure to honor or otherwise respond to a customer warranty claim for which franchisor in the exercise of its business judgment determines that coverage is required or appropriate in order to protect or preserve the goodwill in the marks or the reputation of franchisor franchisee or the system shall be deemed a default under this agreement and franchisee reimbursement of franchisor costs shall be in addition to any other rights franchisor may have under this agreement including its right to terminate this agreement under section. xxii. vehicles. purchase or lease a sufficient number of the vehicles to service the protected territory and meet actual customer demand. each vehicle must comply with franchisor requirements as to make and model as set forth in the operations manual or in other directives from franchisor and shall be painted in accordance with and equipped with inventory tools and supplies complying with franchisor specifications all at franchisee sole cost and expense. franchisee shall at its own cost and expense make the vehicles available for inspection by franchisor at any place within the protected territory as the parties may reasonably agree. franchisee shall not permit the vehicles to be operated at any time other than in connection with performing painting services. customers outside of protected territory. if a potential client outside the protected territory requests the services of franchisee franchisee shall promptly refer such potential client to franchisor or the painting franchisee that operates in the territory where such potential client principal place of business is geographically located. if no painting franchisee operates in such territory franchisee must promptly refer such potential client to franchisor. following such referral if franchisor determines that no painting franchisee operates in the geographic area where such client principal place of business is geographically located franchisor may but is not obligated to by written notice to franchisee allow franchisee to perform the requested services for such potential client. franchisor permission if granted for franchisee to provide service to any potential client outside of the protected territory shall not be deemed to grant franchisee any rights to provide service such potential client or any other clients located outside of the protected territory on an on going basis. franchisee specifically acknowledges that franchisor without providing any compensation to franchisee may grant one or more franchises the right to service clients located outside of the protected territory regardless of whether franchisee has previously provided services to such clients. responsibility for contractors. franchisee agrees to cause any third party sub contractors engaged by franchisee to perform work on behalf of franchisee in respect of the business to comply with all applicable requirements of this section including but not limited to the quality and performance standards required of franchisee as well as the insurance requirements set forth in section. herein. call center. franchisor maintains a call center for the purpose of providing centralized customer service and scheduling for all businesses operating under the system and the marks. franchisee must utilize this call center exclusively comply with any rules and regulations adopted by franchisor in the operations manual or otherwise governing the call center and pay the fees described in section. above. point of sale system and information technology. hardware and software programs. franchisor may establish and maintain and require franchisee to use such computer hardware and software programs and databases including but not limited to email accounts and platforms as it deems advisable from time to time which may include software programs to assist in accounting customer service marketing operations or management functions of the business in the form and configuration determined by franchisor in its sole discretion collectively computer programs. franchisee acknowledges and agrees that any computer program may allow franchisor to have and may require franchisee to provide continuous remote access at franchisee expense to any of the information stored in or compiled by any computer program. franchisee acknowledges that any and all information relating to the business must be provided by franchisee in the form and manner as franchisor may require from time to time. any computer program may require that franchisee enter into a software license agreement and or pay a fee to the software provider or to franchisor which may vary throughout the term of this agreement. any fees franchisee must pay to franchisor for such computer program will be intended to reimburse franchisor for its costs of providing the computer program. franchisee at its expense must purchase and use an estimating computerized cash collection and data processing system the pos system that meets the standards and specifications provided by franchisor from time to time in the operations manual or otherwise. franchisee must enter all sales and other information franchisor requires in the pos system. franchisor may periodically require franchisee at its expense to upgrade or update or replace the pos system to remain in compliance with the standards and specifications required by franchisor. franchisee at its expense must maintain the pos system in good working order and connected to any telephone system or computer network that franchisor requires. franchisor may require franchisee at its expense to configure and connect the pos system to franchisor systems to provide franchisor with continuous real time access to all information and data stored on the pos system. franchisor may require franchisee to pay franchisor or its designated third parties reasonable fees to support and upgrade the pos system and a reasonable fee to franchisor or its designated third party for polling or collecting data from the pos system. in addition to the pos system franchisee at its expense must equipment the business with the computer hardware and software that franchisor specifies periodically and maintain access to the internet or other computer network that franchisor specifies. franchisee shall purchase a laptop computer not a mac that is approved by franchisor and converts into a tablet. in addition franchisee at its expense must also apply for and maintain other credit card debit card or other non cash payment systems that franchisor periodically requires. access to data. franchisee acknowledges that franchisor will have independent access to certain financial and other information of franchisee that is stored electronically. during the term of this agreement and any subsequent franchise agreement between franchisor and franchisee franchisor will not disclose to any third party any specific financial or other information directly associated with franchisee or the business unless authorized by franchisee. franchisor may however disclose such information to its employees attorneys accountants consultants agents and others retained or employed by it who have a need to know such information in order to facilitate the administration of the relationship between franchisee and franchisor or to comply with applicable law court orders or accounting rules. during the term of this agreement franchisee agrees that franchisor may collect and disclose to other franchisees operating in the system data relating to franchisee operation of the business for the purpose of benchmarking or performance recognition. franchisee acknowledges that after the termination of this agreement or any subsequent franchise agreement between franchisor and franchisee franchisor may release such information to other franchisees and prospective franchisees. franchisor obligations pursuant to this section. will in no way restrict its right to compile aggregate data for research and other purposes and to use or disclose such aggregate data. franchisee acknowledges that franchisor may require franchisee to enter into a software license agreement whereby franchisee will record and store data on a server hosted by a third party and that such third party may also have access to such data as may be necessary to perform such third party obligations under the software license agreement. advertising. grand opening. franchisee at its sole expense must develop and implement a grand opening promotion approved by franchisor to introduce or if franchisee is purchasing an existing business to re introduce the business to the public during the period that isbeginning days prior andto opening and continuing until days after the opening of the business or the grand opening period. if you are converting an existing business to a painting the grand opening period shall begin days prior to and continue for days after the transferyour commencement of the business ifoperations as a painting. franchisee is purchasing an existing business. franchisee is required tomust spend a minimum of at least for the grand opening promotion within the first three months of operationduring the grand opening period. to the extent franchisor has developed or approved marketing or advertising programs and materials for the business grand opening franchisee must use such programs and materials. franchisor will provideconsult with franchisee with assistance in planning the grand opening promotional campaign. marketing fundamental if a marketing fund is established during the term hereof franchisee must pay to franchisor or such other entity designated by franchisor the marketing fund contribution established under section. herein which amount shall be used by the marketing fund as such term is hereinafter defined. the marketing fund contribution shall be the same for all painting franchisees.defined below. the marketing fund contribution will be expended for the benefit of franchisor franchisee and all other franchisees or users of the painting system in the united states and canada for the production or purchase of such radio television print and or other advertising materials or services as franchisor deems necessary or appropriate in its sole discretion on a national regional or local basis the marketing fundamental the expenditure of such funds for advertising is to be under the control of and in the discretion of franchisor at all times or such other entities designated by franchisor. franchisee understands and acknowledges that the marketing fund is intended to maximize and support general public recognition brand identity sales and patronage of painting businesses for the benefit of all painting businesses and that franchisor undertakes no obligation to ensure that the marketing fund benefits each painting business in proportion to its respective contributions. franchisor agrees that all funds contributed to the marketing fund may be used to meet any and all costs including without limitation reasonable salaries and overhead incurred by franchisor of developing maintaining administering directing and preparing national regional or local advertising materials programs and public relations activities including without limitation the costs of preparing and conducting television radio magazine billboard newspaper direct response literature direct mailings brochures collateral advertising material designing and implementing websites for franchisor and or its franchises surveys of advertising effectiveness and other media programs and activities employing advertising agencies to assist therewith and providing promotional brochures decals and other marketing materials. promotional brochures decals and other marketing materials. franchisee further acknowledges that the marketing fund may be used to develop maintain administer direct and prepare materials programs and public relations activities which promote the system in conjunction with one or more franchise systems which may be owned by franchisor or franchisor affiliates provided that a substantial focus of such materials programs or activities includes the promotion of the system. notwithstanding the foregoing franchisor agrees that the marketing fund assets shall not be used to create design or disseminate advertising or promotional materials that are primarily intended or whose principal effect is to recruit new franchisees and develop new franchised businesses operating under the marks. the marketing fund shall be established as a separate banking account and monies received shall be accounted for separately from franchisor other funds and shall not be used to defray any of franchisor general operating expenses except for such reasonable salaries administrative costs and overhead as franchisor may incur in activities reasonably related to the administration or direction of the marketing fund and its programs including without limitation conducting market research preparing advertising and promotional materials collecting and accounting for contributions to the marketing fund paying for the preparation and distribution of financial statements legal and accounting fees and expenses taxes and other reasonable direct and indirect expenses incurred by franchisor or its authorized representatives in connection with programs funded by the marketing fundamental the marketing fund will not be franchisor asset. financial an unaudited statement of the operations of the marketing fund shall be prepared annually and shall be made available to franchisee upon request. franchisor may spend in any fiscal year more or less than the aggregate contribution of all painting businesses to the marketing fund in that year and the marketing fund may borrow from franchisor or others to cover deficits or invest any surplus for future use. any lender loaning money to the marketing fund shall receive interest at a reasonable rate. all interest earned on monies contributed to the marketing fund will be used to pay advertising costs before other assets of the marketing fund are expended. franchisor may cause the marketing fund to be incorporated or operated through a separate entity at such time as franchisor may deem appropriate and such successor entity if established will have all rights and duties specified in this section. franchisor will not be liable for any act or omission with respect to the marketing fund that is consistent with this agreement and done in good faith. except as expressly provided in this section. franchisor assumes no direct or indirect liability or obligation to franchisee with respect to the maintenance direction or administration of the marketing fundamental franchisee acknowledges and agrees that franchisor is not operating or acting as a trustee or fiduciary with respect to the marketing fund contributions collected. franchisee agrees to participate in any promotion marketing or advertising campaigns created by the marketing fundamental franchisor may reduce contributions of franchises to the marketing fund and upon notice to franchisee reduce the marketing fund operation or terminate the marketing fund and distribute unspent monies to those contributing franchisees in proportion to their contributions in the past. anfranchisor may form at its sole discretion an advisory board has been formed byconsisting of franchisees of the system the council to provide advice and counsel regarding franchisor use of marketing fund contributions. such council shall function in an advisory capacity only and shall not exercise any authority over the marketing fund or over franchisor. franchisee must participate in councilcouncil related activities and meetings pay any dues assessed for the administration of that program and pay franchisee own expenses associated with participating in council activities. franchisor will pay its proportionate share of council dues based on the number of painting businesses it or its affiliates operate. local advertising. franchisee acknowledges and agrees that to effectively compete within the protected territory franchisee must undertake and execute an extensive marketing and advertising program designed to promote the business within the protected territory. therefore in addition to making contributions to the marketing fund franchisee shall at franchisee cost and expense market advertise and promote the business in the protected territory and shall i market advertise and promote the business in the protected territory only in a manner that will reflect favorably on franchisor franchisee the services and products offered by franchisee and the good name goodwill and reputation of franchisor and the business and ii not use any advertising or other marketing or promotional materials furnished by franchisor or any other materials containing therein thereon or therewith any of the marks for any purpose other than to market and promote the business. franchisee shall furthermore not copy or otherwise duplicate any advertising or promotional materials prepared by or for or furnished by franchisor without franchisor prior written consent. in addition to contributions to the marketing fund commencing upon the conclusion of the grand opening period franchisee shall spend during the term of this agreement a minimum of ten percent. of its gross sales per quartermonth on local advertising in the protected territory either by way of direct promotion or participation in a local advertising cooperative with other painting franchisees for the term of this agreement. such advertising shall be restricted to the protected territory or in case of advertising cooperatives franchisee shall assure that such advertising shall directly benefit the protected territory.an advertising cooperative as described in section. below. franchisee shall provide franchisor with evidence that such monies have been expended in reports as required under section. herein. franchisor retains the right to require that franchisee minimum local advertising expenditure be allocated as directed by franchisor to advertising of certain types using specific vendors in particular channels or as a component of a broader campaign. franchisee further acknowledges that franchisor may require that any local marketing or advertising include reference in a form determined by franchisor to one or more franchise systems which may be owned by franchisor or franchisor affiliates provided that a substantial focus of such materials programs or activities includes the promotion of the business. the total amount of advertising funds expended by franchisee for individual local market advertising shall be determined by franchisee subject to the foregoing minimum requirement.requirements. local advertising expenditures shall not include incentive programs including without limitation costs of honoring coupons or costs of honoring sales promotions nor shall it include salaries contributions donations press parties or in store fixtures or equipment and exterior or interior signage. if franchisee fails to make advertising expenditures in accordance with this section franchisor shall have the right to spend an amount not to exceed the minimum amount stated above on local advertising on behalf of franchisee and franchisee must reimburse franchisor for such expenses. advertising cooperatives. in connection with the business and any and all other painting businesses owned or operated by franchisee franchisee shall participate if required by franchisor in any local regional or national cooperative advertising group consisting of other franchisees of painting businessesbusinesses when and if any such groups are created each an advertising cooperative. the particular advertising cooperative in which franchisee may be required to participate shall be designated by franchisor in its sole discretion which designations may be based upon without limitation the particular designated market area or the area of dominant influence as those terms are used in the advertising industry where the painting businesses operated by franchisee are located. franchisee payments to any advertising cooperative shall be determined by franchisee and those other franchisees of the painting system and or franchisor as the case may be who are participants in such advertising cooperative as set forth in the by laws of that advertising cooperative or membership dues participation or other payment agreements of such advertising cooperative. franchisee however may not be required to spend more than the greater of. or of gross sales per annum in connection with any advertising cooperative. amounts paid to an advertising cooperative shall be credited against payments franchisee is otherwise required to make for local advertising as required by section. above. any payments to an advertising cooperative shall be in addition to the amounts required to be paid or spent under sections. and. hereof. franchisee further acknowledges that franchisor may require that any advertising cooperative participate in marketing or advertising programs which may include one or more franchise systems which may be owned by franchisor or franchisor affiliates provided that a substantial focus of such programs includes the promotion of the system. franchisee shall enter into such formal agreements with such other franchisees of the painting system and or franchisor as the case may be as shall be necessary or appropriate to accomplish the foregoing. if franchisee becomes delinquent in its dues or other payments to the advertising cooperative such delinquency shall be deemed a failure to participate in the advertising cooperative and a material breach of this agreement. franchisor may upon days written notice to franchisee suspend or terminate an advertising cooperative program or operations or require an advertising cooperative to be changed or merged with other advertising cooperatives. approval of advertising.approval of advertising. all of franchisee advertising must be in such media and of such type format and other particulars as franchisor may approve must be conducted in a dignified manner and must conform to such standards and requirements as franchisor may specify. any and all advertising and marketing materials whether developed in connection with an advertising cooperative or otherwise not prepared or previously approved by franchisor shall be submitted to franchisor at least days prior to any publication or run date for approval which may be arbitrarily withheld. franchisor may grant or withhold its approval in its sole discretion. franchisor will provide franchisee with written notification of its approval or disapproval within a reasonable time. in the event franchisor does not notify franchisee of its approval or disapproval within days of franchisor receipt of the materials the materials shall be deemed approved. franchisee must discontinue the use of any approved advertising within five days of franchisee receipt of franchisor request to do so. no advertising or promotion by franchisee shall be conducted on or through the internet world wide web or other electronic transmission via computer without express prior written approval by franchisor. all advertising and promotion by franchisee must be factually accurate and shall not detrimentally affect the marks or the painting system as determined in franchisor sole discretion. franchisee shall use the telephone number provided by franchisor in connection with all marketing initiatives. ownership of advertising materials. franchisee acknowledges and agrees that franchisor is the sole and exclusive owner of all copyrights in any and all marketing advertising or promotional materials made available to franchisee which have been prepared by or on behalf of franchisor or contain any of the marks and that such materials shall at all times remain the exclusive property of franchisor. franchisee shall not at any time transfer such materials to any third party other than a licensee authorized to sell the products depicted in such materials without franchisor prior written consent. counseling and advisory services and onsite assistance during the term of this agreement franchisor will upon the request of franchisee furnish a reasonable level of counseling and advisory services to franchisee with respect to the opening and operation of the business including consultation and advice regarding the following i the vehicles ii equipment selection and layout iii selection and use of tools iv employee selection and training advertising and promotion virgin islands bookkeeping and accounting vii purchasing and inventory control viii operational problems and procedures ix periodic inspections licensing and xpermitting and xi new developments and improvements to the painting system. these counseling and advisory services shall occur at franchisor offices or via telephone online video conference or mail. franchisor shall provide such assistance at no expense to franchisee provided however franchisor reserves the right in its sole discretion to charge franchisee a reasonable fee for unusual extensive or extraordinary assistance requested by franchisee and or require franchisee to reimburse franchisor for expenses incurred by it in connection with providing such counseling and advisory services. in addition if requested by franchisee and franchisor personnel are available franchisor may provide onsite assistance and training at the business however franchisor reserves the right to charge a reasonable fee for this onsite assistance plus expenses and costs incurred by franchisor in rendering such assistance. franchisor shall only be liable to franchisee for acts of gross negligence or willful misconduct in connection with providing or failing to provide such services. post opening assistance in the event franchisee needs and requests additional opening assistance from franchisor personnel and franchisor approves such request franchisee will pay all out of pocket expenses of such personnel such as transportation meals and lodging for as long as any such additional personnel assist at the business as well as a consulting fee at franchisor then current daily rate as published in the operations manual which is currently. per day. the costs and expenses associated with this assistance include but are not limited to wages salary transportation meals lodging and fringe benefits. all personnel provided under this section shall be selected by franchisor and is subject to change or removal by franchisor in its sole discretion. performance standards franchisee recognizes that its active development of the protected territory is important to the effective development of the system and that franchisor has entered into this agreement in reliance upon franchisee express obligation to actively implement the system in the protected territory. therefore franchisee acknowledges and agrees that commencing after months after the effective date and after notice to franchisee franchisor will have the right to identify and implement quantitative operational performance standards for example gross sales upon which franchisee development of the protected territory and active implementation of the system will be evaluated. if franchisee performance under such standards fails to meet or exceed the performance of the lowest of all franchised units operating for at least months under the system and the marks as franchisor determines in any months of any year franchisor may elect to a require franchisee and such other of franchisee employees as franchisor determines to attend and complete to our satisfaction such additional training programs that franchisor deems necessary or provide such on site assistance and consultation as franchisor deems necessary. in the event franchisor provides any additional training assistance or consultation as described herein franchisee shall be responsible for all costs and expenses for such training assistance or consultation which may include a fee payable to franchisor. if franchisee fails to improve its performance under such standards by at least and fails to meet or exceed the performance of the lowest of all franchised units operating for at least months under the system and the marks in any of the subsequent months franchisor may in addition to any other rights it may have under this agreement and in its absolute discretion eliminate the territorial protection granted in section. or exercise its rights under section. xxiii. training. initial training. franchisee or its principal owner and its manager must attend and successfully complete to the satisfaction of franchisor an initial training program specified by franchisor before the business may open for business. franchisee must complete the initial training program no later than three months after the effective date. no fee will be charged by franchisor for the participation of up to two individuals in the initial training program however the franchisee shall be responsible for the costs and expenses such as transportation lodging meals incidentals and compensation of each person who attends the training. the business must at all times be operated by a person who has successfully completed the initial training program. franchisor reserves the right to waive all or a portion of the initial training program in its sole discretion. failure to complete initial training program. if franchisor determines in its business judgment that the franchisee or its principal owner or its manager is unable to satisfactorily complete the training program described above franchisor has the right to terminate this agreement. if franchisee is a business entity and the principal owner fails to complete the initial training program to franchisor reasonable satisfaction or if the manager fails to complete the initial training program to franchisor reasonable satisfaction in franchisor sole discretion franchisee may be permitted to select a substitute owner or manager as appropriate and such substitute owner or manager must complete the initial training to franchisor reasonable satisfaction. franchisee may be required to pay franchisor then current rates for additional training if any for providing the initial training program to a substitute manager. training of employees. franchisee shall implement a training program approved by franchisor for employees of the business and shall be responsible for the proper training of its employees. franchisee agrees not to employ any person who fails or refuses to complete franchisee training program or is unqualified to perform his or her duties at the business in accordance with the requirements established for the operation of an painting business. additional training. franchisee may upon payment of franchisor then current initial training fee have additional representatives attend franchisor initial training program provided that reasonable notice is provided to franchisor and that all travel living and related expenses incurred by franchisee representative during such training shall be at franchisee sole cost and expense. in addition franchisee and its managers and employees shall attend and conduct such additional training programs as franchisor may from time to time reasonably require relating to the operation of the business and the painting system. franchisee also may be required to purchase training videos or other instructional materials as specified by franchisor from time to time in the operations manual or otherwise. annual convention and conferences. franchisor shall require franchisee and or one or more of the operating managers of the business to attend an annual convention and conferences which may be offered by franchisor from time to time. franchisee will be responsible for the travel and living expenses of such persons and franchisor may charge a reasonable fee sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of such convention and conferences. attendance at the annual convention shall be mandatory and the annual convention fee shall apply whether or not franchisee attends the conference. the annual convention fee shall be the amount stated in the annual convention notice from franchisor or if franchisee does not attend the conference. marks. ownership of the marks. franchisee acknowledges and agrees that franchisor is the owner of the marks and that nothing herein contained shall give franchisee any right title or interest in and to the marks except the non exclusive right to use the marks in connection with the operation of the business under the painting system in accordance with the terms of this agreement. franchisee also acknowledges and agrees that the marks and all goodwill now or in the future pertaining to the marks are the sole and exclusive property of franchisor and that it shall not raise or cause to be raised any questions concerning or objections to the validity or ownership of such marks on any grounds whatsoever. franchisee will not seek to register reregister or assert claim to or ownership of or otherwise appropriate to itself any of the marks or any marks or names confusingly similar to the marks or the goodwill symbolized by the marks except insofar as such action inures to the benefit of and has the prior written approval of franchisor. upon the expiration termination or cancellation of this agreement whether by lapse of time default or otherwise franchisee agrees immediately to discontinue all use of the marks and to remove all copies replicas reproductions or simulations thereof from the business and the vehicles and to take all necessary steps to assign transfer or surrender to franchisor as appropriate or otherwise place in franchisor or its designees title to all such names or marks other than the marks which franchisee may have used during the term of this agreement in connection with the operation of the business. franchisee hereby acknowledges that franchisor owns and controls the painting system and all of its components. use of the marks. in order to protect the marks the painting system and the goodwill associated therewith franchisee shall unless franchisor otherwise consents in writing i only use the marks designated by franchisor and only in the manner authorized and permitted by franchisor. franchisee shall not make any changes or substitutions whatsoever in or to the use of the marks unless directed by franchisor in writing. franchisee right to use the marks is limited to such uses as are authorized under this agreement and only for the sale of services and products expressly authorized by franchisor and any unauthorized use thereof shall constitute an infringement of franchisor rights and a breach of this agreement i only use the marks for the operation of the business or in advertising for the business. franchisee may not use any of the marks in any part of any domain name or electronic address ii only use the marks for the operation of the business or in advertising for the business. franchisee must not register attempt to register obtain any ownership in or otherwise utilize any website domain name url social media account internet presence or other electronic communications portal relating to the business that has not been previously approved by the franchisor. if franchisee registers attempts to register obtains any ownership in or otherwise utilizes any website domain name url social media account internet presence or other electronic communications portal in violation of this section. ii in addition to any rights franchisor may have under section. xv hereof franchisee acknowledges and agrees that any such website domain name url social media account internet presence or other electronic communications portal including any copyrights therein are franchisor property. if a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any ownership rights to any website domain name url social media account internet presence or other electronic communications portal are not automatically transferred to franchisor pursuant to this section. ii franchisee agrees to execute any documents franchisor deems necessary to give effect to this section. ii. ii iii operate and advertise the business only under the name painting painting or such other marks as franchisor may designate from time to time without prefix or suffix except to describe the location of the business iii iv if franchisee is a corporation limited liability company partnership or other type of entity not use any of the marks including without limitation the name painting painting in its corporate or other legal name without the prior express written consent of franchisor iv follow applicable state or local laws or ordinances if such state or local laws or ordinances require that franchisee file an affidavit of doing business under an assumed name or otherwise file a report or other certificate indicating that painting painting or any similar name is being used as a fictitious or assumed name include in such filing or application therefor an indication that the filing is made as a franchisee of painting llc a delaware limited liability company with its principal office address in charlottesville virginia and provide a copy of such filing to franchisor virgin islands have the symbol tm sm or enclosed in a circle or such other symbols or words as franchisor may designate to protect the marks on all surfaces where the marks appear and virgin islands vii franchisee shall be required to use the marks on all materials representing the business including without limitation business cards stationary mail correspondence apparel checks proposals contracts signage vehicle advertising and marketing and promotional materials provided franchisee accurately depicts the marks on the materials includes a statement on the materials indicating that the business is independently owned and operated by franchisee does not use the marks in connection with any other trademarks trade names or service marks unless specifically approved by franchisor in writing prior to such use and makes available to franchisor upon its request a copy of any materials depicting the marks. internet and website use. franchisee will not establish a website social media account listing or any other form of presence on the internet using any domain nameor containing any of the marks or anything similar to painting painting without franchisor prior written consent. franchisor retains the right to pre approve franchisee use of linking and framing between franchisee web pages and all other web sites. infringement. franchisee shall promptly inform franchisor in writing of any infringement or imitations of any marks the painting system or any act of unfair competition against franchisor or franchisee as to which franchisee has knowledge. franchisee shall not make any demand or serve any notice orally or in writing or institute any legal action or negotiate compromise or settle any controversy with respect to any such infringement or unfair competition without first obtaining franchisor written consent. franchisor shall have the exclusive right to institute negotiate compromise settle dismiss appeal or otherwise handle any such action and take such steps as it may deem advisable to prevent any such action and to join franchisee and any other franchisees as a party to any such action to which franchisor may be a party and to which franchisee is or would be a necessary or proper party but nothing herein shall be construed to obligate franchisor to seek recovery of costs or damages of any kind in any such litigation the assertion or waiver of such claims being within the sole discretion of franchisor. the costs of any such action shall be paid by franchisor and any recovery obtained from such infringers shall be paid to franchisor. franchisee shall execute any and all instruments and documents render such assistance and do such acts and things as may in the opinion of franchisor counsel be necessary or advisable to protect and maintain franchisor interests in any such litigation or other proceeding or to otherwise protect and maintain franchisor interest in the marks. provided franchisee complies with the provisions of this section. franchisor will reimburse franchisee for all expenses reasonably incurred in any legal proceeding disputing franchisee authorized use of any mark. such reimbursement does not include franchisee expenses for removing signage or discontinuing use of any mark. franchisor will not reimburse franchisee in any disputes where franchisor challenges franchisee use of a mark. substitute marks. if franchisor decides to change add or discontinue use of any mark or franchisor license to use the same or to introduce additional or substitute marks franchisee upon a reasonable period of time after receipt of written notice shall take such action at its sole expense as is necessary to comply with such changes alteration discontinuation addition or substitution. franchisor shall not have any liability for any loss of revenue or goodwill due to any new mark or discontinued mark. relationship of the parties. independent contractor. under this agreement franchisee is an independent contractor with entire control and direction of the business subject only to the terms of this agreement. any subcontractors retained by franchisee are independent contractors of franchisee alone. this agreement is not intended to and does not create a fiduciary or other special relationship between the parties or make any party a principal agent legal representative parent affiliate subsidiary joint venturer partner employer joint employer employee or servant of any other party for any purpose. in that regard i with the exception of franchisor step in rights in the event of a default under section. below franchisor has no right or duty to operate the business and disclaims any liability under this agreement from any damages arising out of the operation of the business. ii franchisee is solely responsible for recruiting interviewing hiring timekeeping scheduling payroll processing supervising disciplining and firing of its personnel and franchisee personnel are not employees independent contractors or agents of franchisor. franchisor has no right or duty to supervise or to exercise control over personnel of franchisee in the operation of the business and disclaims any rights or responsibilities as to personnel of franchisee. franchisee is solely responsible for consulting with franchisee own third party human resources service provider and or legal counsel concerning compliance with applicable personnel laws and regulations and for complying with those laws and regulations. iii except as provided in this agreement franchisee is solely responsible for training franchisee personnel. to the extent that franchisor provides franchisee with guidelines recommendations materials and other resources related to training franchisee management and non management personnel franchisee may use those training resources or may choose to use alternate training resources so long as franchisee management and non management personnel are trained to operate the business in a safe manner compliant with the terms of this agreement and all applicable legal requirements. iv franchisee is solely responsible for establishing and enforcing franchisee own policies related to personnel practices and labor relations policies. to the extent that franchisor provides franchisee with guidelines recommendations materials and other resources related to personnel practices and labor relations franchisee may use those resources or may choose to use alternate resources. franchisee is solely responsible for consulting with franchisee own third party human resources service provider and or legal counsel concerning compliance with applicable personnel and labor relations laws and regulations and for complying with those laws and regulations. public notices. during the term of this agreement and any extension or renewal hereof franchisee shall hold itself out to the public public officials its suppliers its independent contractors its employees and others as an independent contractor operating the business pursuant to a franchise from franchisor but not jointly with franchisor. franchisee shall take such affirmative action as may be necessary to do so including without limitation exhibiting a notice of that fact in a conspicuous manner at the business and on all websites customer contracts forms business cards electronic communications advertisements stationery or other materials the form and content of which franchisor has the right to specify and change. employee statements and acknowledgments. during the term of this agreement franchisee shall hold itself out to prospective employees and to current employees as an independent contractor operating the business pursuant to a franchise from franchisor but not jointly with franchisor. franchisee shall take any reasonable action that franchisor considers necessary to that end including. as of the date of this agreement franchisor considers the following actions without limitation are necessary i stating conspicuously on each employment application that the prospective employee is applying to be an employee of franchisee and not an employee of franchisor ii stating franchisee entire business name rather than just using franchisor brand name and or logo on payroll checks and or payroll related communications to employees and iii requiring employees to sign acknowledgements that they are not employees of franchisor even though they are selling services and or products identified by franchisor brand name and or logo are receiving payroll checks and other communications that contain franchisor brand name and or logo may have applied for jobs through franchisor website or may communicate with or receive non mandatory feedback coaching or recommendations from representatives of franchisor in emails or other electronic or written communications or during telephone calls meetings or inspections. franchisor reserves the right to specify and change the content and form of these statements and acknowledgements. contracts and representations. franchisee is not granted any right or authority to assume or create any obligation for or on behalf of or in the name of franchisor or in any way to bind franchisor or to make any representation to any third party tending to indicate a business relationship with franchisor beyond that created under this agreement. franchisor disclaims any liability for and shall not be held liable under this agreement for any claim or judgment arising as a result of any such action. franchisee further agrees not to incur or contract for any debt or obligation on behalf of the franchisor represent or imply to third parties that franchisee is an agent of franchisor or commit any act make any representation or advertise in any manner which may adversely affect any right of franchisor or be detrimental to the good name and reputation of franchisor or any other franchisees of franchisor. maintenance of credit standing the failure or repeated delay in making prompt payments in accordance with the terms of invoices and statements rendered to franchisee for purchases or leases of the vehicles supplies equipment and tools including and other items whether purchased or leased from franchisor or others or defaults in making payments due hereunder or under any other agreement entered into in connection with the operation of the business will result in a loss of credit rating and standing which will be detrimental to franchisor and other franchisees of the painting system. franchisee agrees to pay when due all amounts which it owes to anyone for the vehicles supplies equipment and tools including and other items used in connection with the business and all payments owed hereunder or under any other agreement entered into in connection with the operation of the business. franchisee must notify franchisor immediately when and if franchisee becomes more than days delinquent in the payment of any of the obligations mentioned above. indemnification insurance and taxes. indemnification. franchisee agrees to indemnify defend and hold harmless franchisor and its affiliates shareholders directors officers employees agents successors and assignees the indemnified parties against and to reimburse any one or more of the indemnified parties for all claims obligations and damages described in this section any taxes described in section. below and any claims incurred in connection with any action suit demand claim investigation or proceeding or any settlement thereof which arises from or is based upon franchisee a ownership or operation of the business violation breach or asserted violation or breach of any federal state or local law regulation or rule breach of any representation warranty covenant or provision of this agreement or any other agreement between franchisee and franchisor or any of its affiliates defamation of franchisor or the system acts errors or omissions committed or incurred in connection with the business including any negligent or intentional acts infringement violation or alleged infringement or violation of any mark patent or copyright or any misuse of the confidential information or any joint employer agency or ostensible agency or similar claims based on the establishment or operation of the business. for purposes of this indemnification provision i the term claims includes all obligations damages actual consequential or otherwise and costs reasonably incurred in the defense of any claim against any of the indemnified parties including reasonable accountants arbitrators attorneys and expert witness fees costs of investigations and proof of facts court costs other expenses of litigation arbitration or alternative dispute resolution and travel and living expenses. ii franchisee shall give franchisor immediate notice of any such action suit demand claim investigation or proceeding that may give rise to a claim for indemnification by any of the indemnified parties. franchisor has the right to retain counsel of its own choosing in connection with any such action suit demand claim investigation or proceeding. iii in order to protect persons property franchisor reputation or the goodwill of others franchisor has the right to at any time without notice take such remedial or corrective actions as it deems expedient with respect to any action suit demand claim investigation or proceeding if in franchisor sole judgment there are grounds to believe any of the acts or circumstances listed above have occurred. iv if franchisor exercise of its rights under this section causes any of franchisee insurers to refuse to pay a third party claim all cause of action and legal remedies franchisee might have against such insurer shall automatically be assigned to franchisor without the need for any further action on either party part. under no circumstances shall franchisor be required or obligated to seek coverage from third parties or otherwise mitigate losses in order to maintain a claim against franchisee. the failure to pursue such remedy or mitigate such loss shall in no way reduce the amounts recoverable by franchisor from franchisee. this indemnity will continue in effect after the expiration or termination of this agreement. insurance. franchisee agrees to secure and maintain during the term of this agreement at its own cost an insurance policy or policies protecting franchisee and franchisor and its affiliates against any demand or claim with respect to personal injury death or property damage or any loss liability or expense whatsoever arising or occurring upon or in connection with the business or the vehicles including but not limited to comprehensive general liability insurance automobile liability insurance property and casualty insurance statutory workers compensation insurance and umbrella liability insurance. in connection with this obligation franchisee agrees that i such policy or policies shall reflect industry standards shall be written by a responsible carrier or carriers acceptable to franchisor shall name franchisor and its affiliates as additional insureds with the exception of any employer liability or workers compensation insurance and shall provide at least the types and minimum amounts of coverage as are specified in the operations manual as modified by franchisor from time to time. franchisee understands and acknowledges that the amounts of coverage required by franchisor are minimum amounts and do not represent a recommendation by franchisor as to the amount of insurance coverage franchisee should maintain for the business. franchisee further understands and acknowledges that it is franchisee sole responsibility to determine the proper insurance coverage that is appropriate to protect franchisee interests and that franchisee should seek the consultation and advice of an independent insurance broker to assist franchisee in making an informed determination. ii prior to the opening of the business and thereafter at least days prior to the expiration of any such policy or policies franchisee shall deliver to franchisor certificates of insurance evidencing the proper coverage with limits not less than those required hereunder and all such certificates shall expressly contain endorsements requiring the insurance company to give franchisor at least days written notice in the event of material alteration to termination non renewal or cancellation of the coverages evidenced by such certificates and notice of any claim filed under such policy within days after the filing of such claim. iii if franchisee at any time fails or refuses to maintain any insurance coverage required by franchisor or to furnish satisfactory evidence thereof franchisor at its option and in addition to its other rights and remedies hereunder may but need not obtain such insurance coverage on behalf of franchisee and franchisee shall pay to franchisor on demand all costs incurred by franchisor in connection with the placement of such insurance. iv franchisee obligation to obtain and maintain or cause to be obtained and maintained the foregoing policy or policies in the amounts specified shall not be limited in any way by reason of any insurance which may be maintained by franchisor nor shall franchisee performance of that obligation relieve it of liability under the indemnity provisions set forth in section. hereof. notwithstanding the existence of such insurance franchisee as agreed above is and shall be responsible for all loss or damage and contractual liability to third persons originating from or in connection with the operation of the business and for all claims or demands for damages to property or for injury illness or death of persons directly or indirectly resulting therefrom. franchisee shall not permit any third party sub contractor to perform any work or offer any services on behalf of franchisee in respect of the business unless such sub contractor maintains insurance coverage in such amounts and types as franchisee is required to maintain under the provisions of this section and such insurance names franchisor as an additional insured. franchisee shall maintain evidence of such insurance by its subcontractors and provide such proof of insurance as franchisor may require in its sole discretion from time to time. taxes. franchisee shall promptly pay when due all taxes levied or assessed by reason of its operation and performance under this agreement including but not limited to if applicable state employment tax state sales tax including any sales or use tax on equipment purchased or leased and all other taxes and expenses of operating the business. in no event shall franchisee permit a tax sale or seizure by levy or execution or similar writings or warrant to occur against the business the vehicles or any tangible personal property used in connection with the operation of the business. however franchisee shall not be obligated to reimburse franchisor for its income tax liability resulting from franchisor receipt of royalties or franchise fees paid by franchisee. assignment. assignment by franchisor. this agreement may be unilaterally assigned by the franchisor and shall inure to the benefit of its successors and assigns. franchisee agrees and affirms that franchisor may sell itself its assets the marks and or the painting system to a third party may go public may engage in private placement of some or all of its securities may merge acquire other corporations or be acquired by another corporation and or may undertake a refinancing recapitalization leveraged buyout or other economic or financial restructuring. franchisee further agrees and affirms that franchisor has the right now or in the future to purchase merge acquire or affiliate with an existing competitive or noncompetitive franchise network chain or any other business regardless of the location of that chain or business facilities however following any such purchase merger acquisition or affiliation neither franchisor nor its successors or assigns under this agreement shall license any third party to operate within the protected territory using the marks. with regard to any of the above sales assignments and dispositions franchisee expressly and specifically waives any claims demands or damages arising from or related to the loss of franchisor name the marks or any variation thereof and the painting system and or the loss of association with or identification of franchisor under this agreement. if franchisor assigns its rights in this agreement nothing in this agreement shall be deemed to require franchisor to remain in the painting business or to offer or sell any products or services to franchisee. in the event of a sale transfer or assignment by franchisor of this agreement or any interest therein to the extent that the purchaser transferee or assignee shall assume the covenants and obligations of franchisor under this agreement franchisor shall thereupon and without further agreement be freed and relieved of all liability with respect to such covenants and obligations. the consent of franchisee to such sale transfer or assignment shall not be required and notwithstanding any such sale transfer or assignment franchisee shall continue to be fully bound by its obligations under this agreement. assignment by franchisee. franchisee shall not subfranchise sell assign transfer merge convey or encumber in whole or in part each a transfer the business the vehicles this agreement or any of its rights or obligations hereunder or suffer or permit any such transfer of the business the vehicles this agreement or its rights or obligations hereunder to occur by operation of law or otherwise without the prior express written consent of franchisor. in addition if franchisee is a corporation limited liability company partnership business trust or similar association or entity the shareholders members partners beneficiaries investors or other equity holders as the case may be may not transfer their equity interests in such corporation limited liability company partnership business trust or similar association or entity without the prior written consent of franchisor. furthermore in the event that any shareholder member partner investor or other equity holder of franchisee the equity holder is a corporation limited liability company partnership business trust or similar association or entity the interests of the shareholders members partners beneficiaries investors or other equity holders as the case may be in such equity holder may not be transferred without the prior written consent of franchisor. any transfer in violation of this section shall be void and of no force and effect. in the event franchisee or an equity holder is a corporation limited liability company partnership business trust or similar association or entity with certificated equity interests all stock or equity certificates of franchisee or equity holder as the case may be shall have conspicuously endorsed upon them a legend in substantially the following form transfer of this stock is subject to the terms and conditions of a painting painting llc franchise agreement dated the. day of. franchisor consent to a transfer of any interest in this agreement or of any ownership interest in the franchisee an equity holder or any owner thereof shall not constitute a waiver of any claims franchisor may have against the transferor or the transferee nor shall it be deemed a waiver of franchisor right to demand compliance with the terms of this agreement. death or disability of franchisee. upon franchisee death or disability as such term is hereinafter defined this agreement or the ownership interest of any deceased or disabled shareholder partner member or other equity holder of the franchisee or an equity holder must be transferred to a party approved by franchisor. any transfer including without limitation transfers by devise or inheritance or trust provisions shall be subject to the same conditions for transfers set forth in section. franchisor shall not unreasonably withhold its consent to the transfer of this agreement or any ownership interest to the deceased or disabled franchisee or equity holder spouse heirs or members of his or her immediate family provided all requirements of section. have been complied with except payment of the transfer fee which shall not apply to such transfers. disability shall have occurred with respect to franchisee if franchisee or if franchisee is a corporation partnership or limited liability company its controlling shareholder partner member or other equity holder is unable to actively participate in its activities as franchisee hereunder for any reason for a continuous period of three months. as used in this section. franchisee may include a disabled or deceased controlling shareholder partner or member where the context so requires. approval of assignment. franchisor agrees not to unreasonably withhold its consent to a transfer of any interest of franchisee in this license provided however that prior to the time of transfer franchisee fulfills the terms of the transfer policy of franchisor which is then in effect. franchisor may as part of such policy and in its sole discretion require that i all monetary obligations whether hereunder or not of franchisee to franchisor or franchisor affiliates or subsidiaries or other creditors of the business being paid in full ii franchisee not being in default hereunder or any other agreement between franchisee and franchisor iii franchisee and its owners executing a general release the same or similar to franchisor standard form of general release attached as schedule of any and all claims against franchisor and its affiliates subsidiaries members managers officers directors employees and agents provided however that if a general release is prohibited franchisee shall give the maximum release allowed by law iv franchisee paying to franchisor a transfer fee equal to ten thousand dollars. ii franchisee first offering to sell such interest to franchisor pursuant to section of this agreement and the same having been declined in the manner therein set forth virgin islands the prospective transferee has satisfied franchisor that it meets franchisor management business and financial standards and otherwise possesses the character and capabilities including business reputation and credit rating as franchisor may reasonably require to demonstrate ability to conduct the business vii franchisee has provided franchisor with a complete copy of all contracts and agreements and related documentation between franchisee and the prospective transferee relating to the intended sale or transfer of the franchise and the franchisor determines that the terms and conditions of the proposed transfer including without limitation the purchase price are not so burdensome as to affect adversely operation of the business by the transferee viii the transferee or all holders of a legal or beneficial interest of greater than five percent in the transferee has agreed to be personally bound jointly and severally by all provisions of this agreement for the remainder of its term ix if franchisee receives a promissory note from the transferee or otherwise agrees to defer receipt of part of the sales price then any such promissory note security agreement and or other document concerning that debt shall expressly provide that franchisee right to payment is subordinate to transferee ongoing obligations to franchisor under this agreement the transferee has obtained all necessary consents and approvals by third parties such as the lessor of the approved location and all applicable federal state and local laws rules ordinances and requirements applicable to the transfer have been complied with or satisfied xi the transferee has executed a general release the same as or similar to franchisor standard form general release attached as schedule exhibit of any and all claims against franchisor including its officers directors shareholders and employees in their corporate and individual capacities including without limitation claims with respect to any representations regarding the franchise or the business conducted pursuant thereto or any other matter that may have been made to the transferee by franchisee provided however that if a general release is prohibited transferee shall give the maximum release allowed by law xii franchisee agrees that it shall remain liable for all warranties granted by franchisee during the operation of the business and that it shall perform all such remedial work as may be necessary to comply with the terms of such warranties or in the event that franchisee is unable or otherwise fails to perform such warranty work franchisee agrees to pay to franchisor the cost to perform such warranty work plus a fifteen percent administration charge xiii at franchisor request the proposed transferee or assignee refurbishes the vehicles or purchases additional vehicles in accordance with the specifications provided in the operations manual and xiv at franchisor option and request franchisee executes franchisor then current form of franchise agreement which franchise agreement shall supersede in all respects the terms and conditions of this agreement and may contain terms and conditions substantially different from those set forth herein including without limitation additional fees and or an increase in royalties call center fees technology fees or marketing fund contributions as such terms are hereinafter defined and or a change in the size or composition of the protected territory however the transfer franchise agreement shall only provide for the number of additional renewal terms called for by this agreement and shall contain mandatory minimum annual royalties requirements that reflect the maturity of the business and its record of gross sales during the prior term. removal of general partner. if franchisee is a limited partnership franchisee may not remove or appoint or permit the limited partners to remove or appoint a new or successor general partner without the prior written consent of franchisor even if such appointment is due to the resignation death or disability of the general partner. franchisor disclosure to transferee. franchisor has the right without liability of any kind or nature whatsoever to franchisee to make available for inspection by any intended transferee of franchisee all or any part of franchisor records relating to this agreement the business or to the history of the relationship of the parties hereto. franchisee hereby specifically consents to such disclosure by franchisor and shall release and hold franchisor harmless from and against any claim loss or injury resulting from an inspection of franchisor records relating to the franchise by an intended transferee identified by franchisee. for sale advertising. franchisee shall not without prior written consent of franchisor place in on or upon the location of the business or in any communication media any form of advertising relating to the sale of the business or the rights granted hereunder. transfer to a controlled entity. if franchisee wishes to transfer this agreement or any interest herein to a corporation limited liability company which shall be entirely owned by franchisee controlled entity which controlled entity is being formed for the financial planning tax or other convenience of franchisee franchisor consent to such transfer must be obtained in writing and shall be conditioned upon the satisfaction of the following requirements i the controlled entity is newly organized and its charter provides that its activities are confined exclusively to the operation of the business ii franchisee or all holders of a legal or beneficial interest in franchisee own all of the equity and voting power of the outstanding stock or other capital interest in the controlled entity iii all obligations of franchisee to franchisor or any affiliate are fully paid and satisfied provided however that neither franchisee nor the transferee shall be required to pay a transfer fee as required pursuant to section. iv iv the controlled entity has entered into a written agreement with franchisor expressly assuming the obligations of this agreement and all other agreements relating to the operation of the business. if the consent of any other party to any such other agreement is required franchisee has obtained such written consent and provided the same to franchisor prior to consent by franchisor all holders of a legal or beneficial interest in the controlled entity have entered into an agreement with franchisor jointly and severally guaranteeing the full payment of the controlled entity obligations to franchisor and the performance by the controlled entity of all the obligations of this agreement virgin islands each stock certificate or other ownership interest certificate of the controlled entity has conspicuously endorsed upon the face thereof of a statement in a form satisfactory to franchisor that it is held subject to and that further assignment or transfer thereof is subject to all restrictions imposed upon transfers and assignments by this agreement vii copies of the controlled entity articles of incorporation bylaws operating agreement and other governing regulations or documents including resolutions of the board of directors authorizing entry into this agreement have been promptly furnished to franchisor. any amendment to any such documents shall also be furnished to franchisor immediately upon adoption viii franchisee has paid to franchisor all reasonable legal expenses and other fees and charges incurred by franchisor in connection with such assignment and the preparation execution and filing of any of the documents referred to in this section. and ix franchisee has satisfied all accrued monetary obligations of franchisee to franchisor and any governmental authority prior to assignment or transfer. the term of the transferred franchise shall be the unexpired term of this agreement including all rights to successor franchises subject to any and all conditions applicable to franchisee right to operate successor franchises. right of first refusal if during the term of this agreement franchisee shall receive a bona fide offer from a prospective purchaser for any interest in franchisee or the business whether by sale of assets sale of equity interest merger consolidation or otherwise it shall offer the same to franchisor in writing at the same price and on the same terms or the monetary equivalent which offer franchisor may accept at any time within days after receipt thereof. if the parties cannot agree on a reasonable monetary equivalent an independent appraiser designated and paid by franchisor shall determine the monetary equivalent and the appraiser determination will be final. if franchisor declines or does not within such day period accept such offer then franchisee may make such transfer to such purchaser provided franchisor approves of such purchaser in accordance with section. and subject to compliance with section. but not at a lower price nor on more favorable terms than have been offered to franchisor. if franchisee fails to complete such transfer within days following the refusal or failure to act by franchisor or if there is any material change in the terms of the offer then this right of first refusal by franchisor shall again be applicable as in the case of an initial offer. restrictive covenants and confidentiality. covenants not to compete. i i non competition during term. in addition to and not in limitation of any other restrictions on franchisee contained herein franchisee and franchisee spouse and if franchisee is not an individual its shareholders members partners and managers as applicable and their spouses each a bound party agree that they will not during the term of this agreement directly or indirectly for and on behalf of itself himself herself or any other person or entity during the term of this agreement a have any direct or indirect interest as a disclosed or beneficial owner in a competitive business as defined below regardless of location or perform services as a director officer manager employee consultant representative agent or otherwise for a competitive business regardless of location. ii. ii post term non competition. in addition to and not in limitation of any other restrictions on franchisee contained herein franchisee and the bound parties agree that they will not for two years following the effective date of termination or expiration of this agreement for any reason or following the date of a transfer by franchisee directly or indirectly for and on behalf of itself himself herself or any other person or entity a have any direct or indirect interest as a disclosed or beneficial owner in a competitive business or perform services as a director officer manager employee consultant representative agent or otherwise for a competitive business which in either case is i located or operating within the protected territory or within a radius of twenty miles as the crow flies of the territory or ii located in or operating within twenty miles of any other painting franchised location or painting franchise location in development that has been assigned a territory. iii. iii competitive business. for purposes of this agreement the term competitive business means any business operating or granting franchises or licenses to others to operate in any business which offers or sells the products orpainting decorating and wall finishing services of the type offered under the painting system other than another painting business operated by franchisee under license from franchisor. neither franchisee nor the other bound parties will be prohibited from owning securities in a competitive business if they are listed on a stock exchange or traded on the over the counter market and represent or less of the number of shares of that class of securities which are issued and outstanding. moreover a competitive business shall not include a general handyman services business provided that franchisee and the bound parties shall only offer residential or commercial painting and or decorating services through the business both during the term of this agreement and for two years after its termination or expiration. iv. iv general. the parties acknowledge that the covenants contained in this section are based on the reason and understanding that franchisee and the bound parties will possess knowledge of franchisor business and operating methods and confidential information disclosure and use of which would prejudice the interest of franchisor and its franchisees. franchisee further understands and acknowledges the difficulty of ascertaining monetary damages and the irreparable harm that would result from breach of these covenants and agrees that in the event of the actual or threatened breach of this section. by franchisee or any of its partners or shareholders or any member of the immediate family of franchisee or any of its partners or shareholders franchisor shall be entitled to an injunction without bond restraining such person from any such actual or threatened breach in addition to any other relief to which franchisor may be entitled in law or equity. if any part of this restriction is found to be unreasonable in time or distance such time or distance may be reduced by appropriate order of the court to that deemed reasonable. franchisee further acknowledges and agrees that the provisions of this section. shall be tolled during any default under this section. and that the restriction shall be applicable for the greater of two years from termination or two years from a courtcourt issuing an order restraining the bound party from violating this section. non solicitation. franchisee and the bound parties agree that while this agreement is in effect and for two years after expiration or termination of this agreement for any reason or following the date of a transfer by franchisee they will not directly or indirectly solicit or attempt to solicit or otherwise interfere with or disrupt the employment customer or vendor relationship between franchisor and any of their respective employees customers and vendors or between any other painting franchisee and its employees customers and vendors. trade secrets and confidential information. franchisee acknowledges and agrees that in connection with the operation of painting businesses and the painting system franchisor has developed competitively sensitive proprietary and confidential information which are not commonly known by or available to the public. this proprietary and confidential information does not include any information that a is commonly known by or available to the public has been voluntarily disclosed to the public by franchisor been independently developed or lawfully obtained by franchisee or has otherwise entered the public domain through lawful means. all information which comprises the painting system including the information and data in the operations manual will be presumed to be confidential information of franchisor along with the identity and contact information of any customers of the business. franchisee and each bound party agree that while this agreement remains in effect such party will not directly or indirectly disclose or publish to any party or copy or use for such party own benefit or for the benefit of any other party any of franchisor proprietary or confidential information except as required to carry out franchisee obligations under this agreement or as franchisor has otherwise expressly approved in writing. all proprietary and confidential information of franchisor is the sole and exclusive property of franchisor. franchisee and each bound party agree that the restriction contained in the preceding sentence will remain in effect with respect to the confidential information for five years following termination or expiration of this agreement for any reason provided however if the confidential information rises to the level of a trade secret then such restriction shall remain in effect until such time as the information does not constitute a trade secret. franchisee also agrees that it and all of its employees and agents will take appropriate steps to protect franchisor confidential information from any unauthorized disclosure copying or use. at any time upon franchisor request and in any event upon termination or expiration of this agreement franchisee will immediately return any copies of documents where there are materials containing confidential information and will take appropriate steps to permanently delete and render unusable any confidential information stored electronically. personal covenants of certain bound parties. as a condition to the effectiveness of this agreement and at the time franchisee delivers this signed agreement to franchisor each bound party of franchisee must sign and deliver to franchisor the personal covenants attached hereto as exhibit the personal covenants agreeing to be bound personally by all the provisions of sections. and. hereof. if there are any changes in the identity of any such bound party while this agreement is in effect franchisee must notify franchisor promptly and make sureensure the new bound party signs and delivers to franchisor the personal covenants. agreements by other third parties. as a condition to franchisor upon execution of this agreement and throughout the initial term and any succeeding terms franchisee if requested by franchisor shall cause each of its management and supervisory employees principal owners and any individual who will have access to franchisor confidential information including the operations manual to execute a noncompetition nonsolicitation and or nondisclosure agreement substantially in the form prescribedprovided by franchisor from time to time. however franchisee shall be responsible for determining the enforceability of such agreements and making such modifications as may be necessary to ensure such agreements comply with applicable law. franchisee claims no defense. franchisee expressly agrees that the existence of any claims franchisee may have against franchisor whether or not arising from this agreement will not constitute a defense to the enforcement by franchisor of the covenants in this section. freedom to contract. franchisee represents and warrants that neither franchisee nor any of its principals are at the time of signing this agreement subject to any non compete non disclosure non circumvent non solicitation confidentiality or other agreement which would restrict or limit franchisee or such principal ability to participate in the ownership or operation of the business. franchisee further represents and warrants that neither franchisee nor any of its principals will be in breach of any such non compete non disclosure non circumvent non solicitation confidentiality or other agreement as a result of entering into this agreement or participating in the ownership or operation of the business. termination. termination by franchisee. franchisee may terminate this agreement if i franchisee is in compliance with this agreement and franchisor materially breaches this agreement and fails to cure such material breach within days after written notice thereof is delivered to franchisor. notwithstanding the foregoing if the breach is curable but is of a nature which cannot reasonably be cured with such day period and franchisor has commenced and is continuing to make good faith efforts to cure such breach franchisor shall be given an additional day period to cure the same and this agreement shall not terminate. ii if franchisee terminates this agreement pursuant to this section all post termination obligations of franchisee described herein shall not be waived but shall be strictly adhered to by franchisee and franchisee shall remain obligated to honor all other obligations set forth in this agreement that by their terms apply subsequent to termination of the franchise relationship including the payment of all outstanding royalties and other fees due hereunder and compliance with the post termination covenant not to compete. termination by franchisor without a cure period. franchisor may immediately terminate this agreement upon written notice to franchisee without opportunity to cure and without any prejudice to the enforcement of any other legal right or remedy if i franchisee fails to satisfactorily complete initial training pursuant to section. ii franchisee fails to commence operation of the business within the protected territory within four months after execution of this agreement except for any delay that is agreed to in writing by the franchisor in its sole discretion iii franchisee abandons fails or refuses to actively operate the business for five or more consecutive days unless the business has not been operational for a purpose approved by franchisor iv franchisee files a petition under any bankruptcy or reorganization law becomes insolvent or has a trustee or receiver appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction for all or any part of its property franchisee is adjudicated as bankrupt becomes insolvent commits any affirmative act of insolvency or files any action or petition of insolvency if a receiver of its property or any part thereof is appointed by a court if it makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors if a final judgment remains unsatisfied of record for thirty days or longer unless supersedeas bond is filed if execution is levied against franchisee business or property if a suit to foreclose any lien or mortgage against its approved location or equipment is instituted against franchisee and not dismissed within thirty days or is not in the process of being dismissed virgin islands franchisee seeks to effect a plan of liquidation reorganization composition or arrangement of its affairs whether or not the same shall be subsequently approved by a court of competent jurisdiction it being understood that in no event shall this agreement or any right or interest hereunder be deemed an asset in any insolvency receivership bankruptcy composition liquidation arrangement or reorganization proceeding vii franchisee has an involuntary proceeding filed against it under any bankruptcy reorganization or similar law and such proceeding is not dismissed within days thereafter viii franchisee makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors ix if franchisee is a business entity of any type if franchisee is dissolved either voluntarily or involuntarily franchisee fails to pay when due any amount owed to any creditor supplier or lessor of the business or the vehicles or any taxing authority for federal state or local taxes other than amounts being bona fide disputed through appropriate proceedings and franchisee does not correct such failure within ten calendar days after written notice is delivered thereof to franchisee iii franchisee fails to satisfy the minimum royalty requirement as defined in section. in any year for which such requirements are defined xi franchisee or any of franchisee owners are convicted of or plead no contest to a felony a crime involving moral turpitude or any other crime or offense that is likely to adversely affect the reputation of the painting system and the goodwill associated with the marks xii franchisee operates the business or any phase of the business in a manner that presents a substantial environmental health or safety hazard to franchisee customers employees or the public xiii xvi franchisee makes a material misrepresentation to franchisor before or after being granted the franchise xiv franchisee makes an unauthorized transfer of this agreement the franchise the business or an ownership interest in franchisee xv franchisee a misuses or makes an unauthorized use of any mark and fails to cure this default within ten days of receiving notice of it misappropriates any mark or challenges franchisor or a licensor ownership of the marks files a lawsuit involving the marks without franchisor consent or fails to cooperate with franchisor in the defense of any mark xvi franchisee commits any act which can be reasonably expected to materially impair or detrimentally impact the goodwill associated with any mark xv franchisee or any bound party breaches or fails to comply fully with section xvii above xviii franchisee makes or permits a third party to make any unauthorized use or disclosure of any confidential information or trade secret of franchisor xix franchisee fails to comply with any federal state or local law or regulation applicable to the operation of the franchise provided that if the failure to comply does not involve tax evasion or result in governmental proceedings then franchisee will be given a reasonable period not to exceed days to come into compliance with the law or regulation xx franchisee knowingly maintains false books or records or denies franchisor authorized representatives immediate access to franchisee books and records during an audit or inspection xxi franchisee submits to franchisor a financial report or other data information or supporting records which understate by more than three percent the royalties and or marketing fund contributions due for any reporting period and is unable to demonstrate that such understatements resulted from an inadvertent error xxii franchisee has defaulted under the agreement three or more times within a month period even if such defaults were subject to a right to cure or is cured after notice is delivered to franchisee or xxiii franchisee fails to meet the performance criteria established by franchisor from time to time as provided in section or xxiii xxiv franchisee defaults under any other agreement between franchisor and franchisee such that franchisor has the right to terminate such agreement or such agreement automatically terminates. termination by franchisor with a cure period. i franchisor shall have the right to terminate this agreement upon days written notice if defaults remain uncured in franchisor sole discretion for the following reasons a franchisee fails to pay when due any amount owed to franchisor or its affiliates or subsidiaries whether under this agreement or not or franchisee fails to operate the business under supervision of an approved manager. ii franchisor shall have the right to terminate this agreement upon days written notice if any default under this agreement remains uncured in franchisor sole discretion and judgment. notwithstanding the foregoing if the breach is curable but is of a nature which cannot reasonably be cured within such day period and franchisee has commenced and is continuing to make good faith efforts to cure such breach franchisee shall be given an additional day period to cure the same and this agreement shall not terminate. by way of example only the following are some of the contract breaches for which franchisee will be provided with notice and an opportunity to cure under this provision a franchisee fails or refuses to submit financial statements reports or other operating data information or supporting records when due franchisee fails to relocate or commits a default other than a monetary default which shall be subject to section. i a above under the lease sublease purchase contract or other contract for the business the vehicles or any equipment tools or supplies utilized in the operation thereof franchisee fails to provide or maintain required insurance coverage franchisee fails to restore the business to full operation within a reasonable period of time not to exceed days after the business is rendered inoperable by any casualty or franchisee fails to comply with any other provision of this agreement or any mandatory specification standard or operating procedure prescribed by franchisor. management of business by franchisor. in addition to franchisor right to terminate this agreement and not in lieu thereof franchisor may exercise complete authority with respect to the management of the business until such time as franchisor shall determine that the default of franchisee has been cured and that franchisee is complying with the requirements of this agreement. this option includes but is not limited to situations in which the business is not under the supervision of an approved manager. franchisee specifically agrees that a designated representative of franchisor may take control and manage the business in the event of any such default. if franchisor assumes the management of the business franchisee must pay franchisor in lieu of the royalties a management fee equal to ten percent of the business gross sales the management fee plus reimburse franchisor for the full compensation paid to such representative including the cost of all fringe benefits plus any and all expenses reasonably incurred by such representative so long as such representative shall be necessary and in any event until the default has been cured and franchisee is complying with the terms of this agreement. franchisee acknowledges that the management fee shall be in addition to the marketing fund contribution and any other fees except the royalties required under this agreement and shall be paid in accordance with the methods of payment set forth in section. if franchisor assumes the business management franchisee acknowledges that franchisor will have a duty to utilize only reasonable efforts and will not be liable to franchisee or its owners for any debts losses or obligations the business incurs or to any of franchisee creditors for any supplies or services the business purchases while franchisor manages it. effect of and obligations upon termination. obligations upon termination or expiration. upon the expiration or termination of this agreement whether by reason of lapse of time default in performance or other cause or contingency franchisee shall i forthwith return to franchisor all material furnished by franchisor containing confidential information operating instructions business practices or methods or procedures including without limitation the operations manual ii immediately cease to operate within the protected territory and cease all use of the marks and the use of any and all signs slogans symbols logos advertising materials forms products and other items bearing the marks and shall not thereafter directly or indirectly represent to the public or hold itself out as a present or former franchisee of franchisor iii pay all sums owing to franchisor which may include but not be limited to all damages costs and expenses including reasonable attorneys fees unpaid royalty fees and any other amounts due to franchisor iv pay to franchisor all costs and expenses including reasonable attorneys fees incurred by franchisor subsequent to the termination or expiration of the franchise in obtaining injunctive or other relief for the enforcement of any provisions of this agreement if franchisee retains possession of the vehicles at franchisee expense make such reasonable modifications to the exterior and interior of the vehicles as franchisor requires to eliminate its identification as a mobile unit operated in connection with an painting business and to avoid violation of the non compete provision virgin islands upon demand by franchisor at franchisor sole discretion immediately assign or if an assignment is prohibited sublease for the full remaining term and on the same terms and conditions as franchisee lease its interest in the lease then in effect for the approved location to franchisor and franchisee shall furnish franchisor with evidence satisfactory to franchisor of compliance with this obligation within thirty days after termination or expiration of this agreement and franchisor has the right to pay rent and other expenses directly to the party to whom such payment is ultimately due vii if franchisee retains possession of any real property used in connection with the business and franchisor does not take assignment of it under section. virgin islands herein at franchisee expense make such reasonable modifications to the exterior and interior dcor of the real property as franchisor requires to eliminate its identification as an painting business and to avoid violation of the non compete provision viii refrain from operating or doing business under any name or in any manner that may give the general public the impression that this agreement is still in force or that franchisee is connected in any way with franchisor or that franchisee has the right to use the painting system or the marks ix refrain from making use of or availing itself to any of the confidential information operations manual or other information received from franchisor or disclosing or revealing any of the same in violation of section. hereof including but not limited to all data and information concerning any customers of the painting business take such action as may be necessary to cancel or assign to franchisor at franchisor option any assumed name or equivalent registration filed with state city or county authorities which contains the name painting painting or any of the marks and franchisee shall furnish franchisor with evidence satisfactory to franchisor of compliance with this obligation within thirty days after termination or expiration of this agreement xi assign to franchisor or its designee all of franchisee rights title and interest in the telephone numbers telephone directory listings and advertisements website urls mail addresses store leases and governmental licenses or permits used for the operation of the business. simultaneously with franchisee execution of this agreement franchisee will execute the internet web sites and listings agreement attached hereto as exhibit and the telephone listing agreement attached hereto as exhibit and xii fulfill all of franchisee obligations to customers under all outstanding contracts and any warranties provided for in this agreement notwithstanding the expiration or termination of the same. in order to ensure that franchisee honors these obligations within fourteen days after the effective date of expiration or termination franchisee shall post a bond in an amount equal to one half of one percent. of franchisee gross sales for the last twenty four months or pay franchisor a fee of ten thousand dollars whichever is greater. franchisor shall return such monies less any amount expended to satisfy franchisee outstanding obligations upon and franchisor satisfaction that franchisee has satisfied all of its obligations pursuant to this subsection. xiii strictly comply with the terms and conditions of section above. sale upon expiration or termination. except in the case of a renewal under section. if this agreement expires or is terminated or canceled for any reason franchisor shall have the option to purchase the business the vehicles and or a portion of the assets of the business including fixtures furniture vehicles equipment tools and improvements and which may include at franchisor option all of franchisee leasehold interest in and to any real estate upon which the business is located but not including real property collectively the assets. if franchisor desires to purchase any or all of the assets but the parties are unable to agree as to a purchase price and terms of such sale the fair market value of such assets to be determined without goodwill or going concern value shall be determined by three appraisers. franchisee and franchisor shall each select one appraiser and the two appraisers so chosen shall select the third appraiser. the three appraisals shall be averaged to determine the purchase price. franchisor shall have the right at any time within days after being advised in writing of the decision of the appraisers as aforesaid to purchase the assets at the purchase price as determined above. each party shall be responsible for the costs and expenses of the appraiser it selected and the cost of the third appraiser shall be shared equally by the parties. nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to be a waiver by franchisor of any default by franchisee under this agreement nor shall the exercise of the option to purchase the assets contained in this section affect any other rights or remedies granted to franchisor hereunder or otherwise available to it. notwithstanding the provisions set forth directly above if within forty five days following the expiration of this agreement franchisee shall receive a bona fide offer for the purchase of the assets franchisee shall offer the same in writing to franchisor at the same price and on the same terms or the monetary equivalent which offer franchisor may accept at any time within fifteen days after receipt thereof. if franchisor declines or does not within such day period accept such offer then franchisee may sell the assets to such purchaser but not at a lower price nor on more favorable terms than have been offered to franchisor. any sale of the assets hereunder shall close no later than sixty days after delivery of written notice of franchisor exercise of its option is given to franchisee. franchisor has the right to assign its option hereunder and franchisee must sign all documents of transfer reasonably necessary for the purchase of the assets. all assets transferred shall be free and clear of all liens and encumbrances with all sales and transfer taxes paid by the franchisee. effect of expiration or termination. upon the expiration or termination of this agreement for any reason any and all rights granted to franchisee hereunder shall be extinguished immediately and franchisee shall not be relieved of any of its obligations debts or liabilities hereunder. the expiration or termination of this agreement for any reason will be without prejudice to the rights of franchisor against franchisee and will not destroy or diminish the binding force and effect of any of the provisions of this agreement that expressly or by reasonable implication come into or continue in effect on or after the expiration or termination hereof. liquidated damages. upon termination of this agreement by franchisor under section or by franchisee except as provided in section. franchisee agrees to pay to franchisor within fourteen days after the effective date of this agreement termination in addition to any other amounts owed hereunder liquidated damages calculated by multiplying the combined average monthly royalty fees and marketing fund contributions without regard to any fee waivers abeyances forbearances or other reductions whether granted unilaterally by franchisor or agreed to by the parties hereto owed by franchisee to franchisor during the twelve months preceding the effective date of this agreement termination multiplied by the lesser of i thirty six or ii the number of full months remaining in the term of this agreement except that the liquidated damages due under this section. will not under any circumstances be less than. the parties hereto acknowledge and agree that it would be impracticable to determine precisely the damages franchisor would incur from this agreement termination and the loss of cash flow from royalty fees and marketing fund contributions due to among other things the complications of determining what costs if any franchisor might have saved and how much the royalty fees and marketing fund contributions would have grown over what would have been this agreement remaining term. the parties hereto consider this liquidated damages provision to be a reasonable good faith pre estimate of those damages. the liquidated damages provision only covers franchisor damages from the loss of cash flow from the royalty fees and marketing fund contributions. it does not address any other damages including damages to franchisor goodwill or reputation with the public and landlords and damages arising from a violation of any provision of this agreement other than the royalty fee and marketing fund sections. franchisee and each of franchisee owners agree that this liquidated damages provision does not give franchisor an adequate remedy at law for any default under or for the enforcement of any provision of this franchise agreement other than the royalty fee and marketing fund provisions. other business franchisee agrees not to carry on or conduct or permit others to carry on or conduct any other business activity or operation at the approved location other than the operation of the business in conformity with this agreement and the operations manual at any location at which the business operates without first obtaining the written consent of franchisor. ownership of franchisee attached hereto as exhibit is a description of the legal organization of franchisee whether a corporation limited liability company partnership or otherwise the names and addresses of each person or entity owning a or greater interest in franchisee the principal owners and the percentage of such interest owned by such person or entity. franchisee agrees to notify franchisor in writing whenever there is any change in the organizational structure or ownership interest of franchisee as set forth on exhibit. franchisor shall require each principal owner and such principal owner spouse if any to execute the guaranty agreement attached hereto as exhibit. successors and third party beneficiaries this agreement and the covenants restrictions and limitations contained herein shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of franchisor and its successors and assigns and shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of franchisee and its permitted heirs successors and assigns. except as contemplated by section. nothing in this agreement is intended nor is deemed to confer any rights or remedies upon any person or legal entity not a party hereto. this agreement is however intended to bind the bound parties to the extent set forth in this agreement. construction all terms and words used in this agreement regardless of the number and gender in which they are used shall be deemed and construed to include any other number and any other gender as the context or sense of this agreement or any provision hereof may require as if such words had been fully and properly written in the appropriate number and gender. all covenants agreements and obligations assumed herein by franchisee shall be deemed to be joint and several covenants agreements and obligations of each of the persons named as franchisee if more than one person is so named. except where this agreement expressly obligates franchisor not to unreasonably withhold its approval of any of franchisee actions or requests franchisor has the absolute right in its sole and arbitrary discretion to refuse any request franchisee makes or to withhold its approval of any of franchisee proposed or effected actions that require franchisor approval. whenever franchisor reserves discretion in a particular area or where it agrees to exercise its rights reasonably or in good faith franchisor will satisfy its obligations whenever it exercises reasonable business judgment in making its decision or exercising its rights. franchisor decisions or actions will be deemed to be the result of reasonable business judgment even if other reasonable or even arguably preferable alternatives are available if its decision or action is intended in whole or significant part to promote or benefit the system generally even if the decision or action also promotes its financial or other individual interest. examples of items that will promote or benefit the system include without limitation enhancing the value of the marks improving customer service and satisfaction improving product or service quality improving uniformity enhancing or encouraging modernization and improving the competitive position of the system. interpretation and headings the parties agree that this agreement should be interpreted according to its fair meaning. franchisee waives to the fullest extent possible the application of any rule which would construe ambiguous language against franchisor as the drafter of this agreement. the words include includes and including when used in this agreement will be interpreted as if they were followed by the words without limitation. references to section numbers and headings will refer to sections of this agreement unless the context indicates otherwise. captions and section headings are used herein for convenience only. they are not part of this agreement and shall not be used in construing it. notices all notices or other communications required or permitted to be given under the terms of this agreement shall be given in writing and be delivered personally email by certified express or registered mail or by an overnight delivery service. ups or fed ex. postage prepaid addressed to the party to be notified at the respective address set forth on exhibit or at such other address or addresses as the parties may from time to time designate in writing in accordance with this section. any notice shall be deemed received a at the time delivered by hand to the recipient party or to an officer director or partner of the recipient party on the next business day after transmission via email as long as receipt is confirmed two business days after being sent via guaranteed overnight delivery by a commercial courier service or five business days after being sent by registered mail return receipt requested. all notices shall be sent to franchisee at the address listed on exhibit of this agreement or such other address as franchisee may designate in writing to franchisor. all notices payments and reports required by this agreement shall be sent to franchisor at the following address painting painting llc attention paul flick peter jefferson parkway suite charlottesville virginia. dispute resolution. choice of law. except to the extent this agreement or any particular dispute is governed by the. trademark act of or other federal law this agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the commonwealth of virginia without reference to its conflict of laws principles excluding any law regulating the sale of franchises or governing the relationship between a franchisor and franchisee unless the jurisdictional requirements of such laws are met independently without reference to this section. references to any law refer also to any successor laws and to any published regulations for such law as in effect at the relevant time. references to a governmental agency also refer to any regulatory body that succeeds the function of such agency. references to any law refer also to any successor laws and to any published regulations for such law as in effect at the relevant time. references to a governmental agency also refer to any regulatory body that succeeds the function of such agency. consent to jurisdiction and venue for disputes. any action brought by either party shall be brought in the appropriate state or federal court located in or serving county and state in which franchisor maintains its principal place of business at the time any dispute resolution proceeding is commenced by either party. the parties waive all questions of personal jurisdiction or venue for the purposes of carrying out this provision. any action brought by either party shall be brought in the appropriate state or federal court located in or serving county and state in which franchisor maintains its principal place of business at the time any dispute resolution proceeding is commenced by either party. the parties waive all questions of personal jurisdiction or venue for the purposes of carrying out this provision. the parties hereby submit to service of process by registered and return receipt requested or by any other manner provided by law. this exclusive choice of jurisdiction and venue provision shall not restrict the ability of the parties to confirm or enforce judgments in any appropriate jurisdiction. cumulative rights and remedies. no right or remedy conferred upon or reserved to franchisor or franchisee by this agreement is intended to be nor shall be deemed exclusive of any other right or remedy herein or by law or equity provided or permitted but each shall be in addition to every other right or remedy. nothing contained herein shall bar franchisor right to obtain injunctive relief against threatened conduct that may cause it loss or damages including obtaining restraining orders and preliminary and permanent injunctions. limitation of damages and disclaimer. franchisee and franchisor each waive to the fullest extent permitted by law under any theory of liability any right or claim for any punitive or exemplary damages against the other and agree that if there is dispute with the other except as provided in section. xii and section. each will be limited to the recovery of actual damages sustained by it including reasonable accounting and legal fees. waiver of jury trial. franchisee and franchisor each irrevocably waive trial by jury in any action whether at law or equity brought by either of them. this exclusive choice of jurisdiction and venue provision shall not restrict the ability of the parties to confirm or enforce judgments in any appropriate jurisdiction. cumulative rights and remedies. no right or remedy conferred upon or reserved to franchisor or franchisee by this agreement is intended to be nor shall be deemed exclusive of any other right or remedy herein or by law or equity provided or permitted but each shall be in addition to every other right or remedy. nothing contained herein shall bar franchisor right to obtain injunctive relief against threatened conduct that may cause it loss or damages including obtaining restraining orders and preliminary and permanent injunctions. intentionally deleted. limitation of damages and disclaimer. franchisee and franchisor each waive to the fullest extent permitted by law under any theory of liability any right or claim for any punitive or exemplary damages against the other and agree that if there is a dispute with the other each will be limited to the recovery of actual damages sustained by it including reasonable accounting and legal fees. waiver of jury trial. franchisee and franchisor each irrevocably waive trial by jury in any action whether at law or equity brought by either of them. no class actions. franchisor and franchisee agree that any and all litigation will be conducted on an individual not class wide basis. service of process. the parties agree that service of process in any proceeding arising out of or relating to this agreement or the performance thereof may be made as to franchisee and or the principals by serving a person of suitable age and discretion such as the person in charge of the office at the notice address of franchisee specified in exhibit to this agreement and as to franchisor by serving the franchisor at the notice address specified in section above or by serving franchisor registered agent. costs and attorneys fees. if either party incurs any expenses in connection with the other party failure to pay any amounts it owes when due submit any requested reports when due or otherwise comply with this agreement the breaching party shall reimburse the non breaching party for any of the costs and expenses which the non breaching party incurs including without limitation reasonable accounting attorneys arbitrators and related fees. costs and attorneys fees if either party incurs any expenses in connection with the other party failure to pay any amounts it owes when due submit any requested reports when due or otherwise comply with this agreement the breaching party shall reimburse the non breaching party for any of the costs and expenses which the non breaching party incurs including without limitation reasonable accounting attorneys arbitrators and related fees. the duty to pay such costs and fees shall survive termination or expiration of this agreement. waiver no waiver delay omission or forbearance on the part of franchisor to exercise any right option duty or power arising from any default or breach by franchisee shall affect or impair the rights of franchisor with respect to any subsequent default of the same or a different kind nor shall any delay or omission of franchisor to exercise any right arising from any such default affect or impair franchisor rights as to such default or any future default. in addition subsequent acceptance by franchisor of any payment due shall not be deemed to be a waiver by franchisor of any preceding breach by franchisee of any terms covenants or conditions of this agreement. severability. waiver no waiver delay omission or forbearance on the part of franchisor to exercise any right option duty or power arising from any default or breach by franchisee shall affect or impair the rights of franchisor with respect to any subsequent default of the same or a different kind nor shall any delay or omission of franchisor to exercise any right arising from any such default affect or impair franchisor rights as to such default or any future default. in addition subsequent acceptance by franchisor of any payment due shall not be deemed to be a waiver by franchisor of any preceding breach by franchisee of any terms covenants or conditions of this agreement. severability except as noted below each paragraph part term and provision of this agreement shall be considered severable and if any paragraph part term or provision herein is ruled to be unenforceable unreasonable or invalid such ruling shall not impair the operation of or affect the remaining portions paragraphs parts terms and provisions of this agreement and the latter shall continue to be given full force and effect and bind the parties and such unenforceable unreasonable or invalid paragraphs parts terms or provisions shall be deemed not part of this agreement provided however that if franchisor determines that a finding of invalidity adversely affects the basic consideration of this agreement franchisor has the right to at its option terminate this agreement. anything to the contrary notwithstanding nothing in this agreement is intended nor shall be deemed to confer upon any person or legal entity other than franchisor or franchisee and their respective successors and assigns as may be contemplated by this agreement any rights or remedies under of this agreement. notwithstanding the above each of the covenants contained in section shall be construed as independent of any other covenant or provision of this agreement. if all or any portion of any such covenant is held to be unenforceable unreasonable or invalid then it shall be amended to provide for limitations on disclosure of confidential information or on competition to the maximum extent provided or permitted by law. force majeure. acts of god. whenever a period of time is provided in this agreement for either party to perform any act except pay monies neither party shall be liable nor responsible for any delays due to strikes lockouts casualties acts of god including tornadoes tropical storms hurricanes and storm surges war governmental regulation or control or other causes beyond the reasonable control of the parties and the time period for the performance of such act shall be extended for the amount of time of the delay. this clause shall not result in an extension of the term of this agreement. losses. neither franchisor nor franchisee will be liable for loss or damage or deemed to be in breach of this agreement if franchisor or franchisee breach is due to strikes lockouts casualties acts of god war or other causes beyond the reasonable control of the parties. timing time is of the essence except as set forth in section. i failure to perform any act within the time required or permitted by this agreement shall be a material breach. delegation by franchisor franchisor shall have the right to delegate to one or more affiliates and or third parties performance of any or all of its obligations and duties hereunder. franchisee hereby agrees to such delegation. franchisee further agree that i the term franchisor as used in this agreement will refer only to painting llc and not our parent or affiliates ii franchisor is not authorized to contract for or on behalf of its parent or any of its affiliates and iii this agreement will not be deemed to bind or otherwise restrict our parent or any of franchisor affiliates. withholding payments franchisee shall not for any reason withhold payment of any royalty fees or other amounts due to franchisor or to any of its affiliates.affiliates. franchisee shall not withhold or offset any amounts damages or other monies allegedly due to franchisee against any amounts due to franchisor. no endorsement or statement on any payment for less than the full amount due to franchisor will be construed as an acknowledgment of payment in full or an accord and satisfaction and franchisor has the right to accept and cash any such payment without prejudice to franchisor right to recover the full amount due or pursue any other remedy provided in this agreement or by law. franchisor has the right to apply any payments made by franchisee against any of franchisee past due indebtedness as franchisor deems appropriate. franchisor shall set off sums franchisor owes to franchisee against any unpaid debts owed by franchisee to franchisor. cumulative rights the rights granted hereunder are cumulative and no exercise or enforcement by either party of any right or remedy hereunder will preclude the exercise or enforcement of any other right or remedy to which either franchisor or franchisee are entitled either by this agreement or by law. further assurances each party to this agreement will execute and deliver such further instruments contracts forms or other documents and will perform such further acts as may be necessary or desirable to perform or complete any term covenant or obligation contained in this agreement. entire agreement this agreement and any addendum schedule or exhibit attached hereto contains the entire agreement between the parties hereto relating to the operation of the business and no representations inducements promises agreements arrangements or undertakings oral or written have been made or relied upon by the parties other than those set forth herein or in franchisor disclosure document provided to franchisee. no agreement altering changing waiving or modifying any of the terms and conditions of this agreement shall be binding upon either party unless and until the same is made in writing and executed by all interested parties. nothing in this agreement or any related agreement however is intended to disclaim the representations wefranchisor made in the franchise disclosure document that the franchisor furnished to the franchisee. counterparts this agreement may be signed in multiple counterpart copies each of which will be deemed an original. third party beneficiaries anything to the contrary notwithstanding nothing in this agreement is intended nor shall be deemed to confer any rights or benefits upon any person or legal entity other than franchisor or franchisee and their respective successors and assigns. review of agreement and franchisee acknowledgements. receipt of this agreement and the franchise disclosure document. franchisee represents and acknowledges that it has received read and understands this agreement and franchisor disclosure document and that franchisor has accorded franchisee ample time and opportunity to consult with advisors of its own choosing about the potential benefits and risks of entering into this agreement. franchisee further represents and acknowledges that it has had a copy of the franchisor disclosure document for not less than fourteen calendar days and this agreement in final complete form in its possession for not less than seven business days. consultation by franchisee. franchisee represents and acknowledges that it has had the opportunity to have this agreement and the business offered hereunder reviewed by professionals of franchisee choosing prior to executing this agreement and has either consulted with such professionals or has deliberately declined to do so. anti terrorism provision. franchisee and each of franchisee owners represents and warrants to franchisor that i neither franchisee nor any owner is named either directly or by an alias pseudonym or nickname on the lists of specially designated nationals blocked persons or other sanctions lists maintained by the. treasury department office of foreign assets control currently located at https ii franchisee and each owner will take no action that would constitute a violation of any applicable laws against corrupt business practices against money laundering and against facilitating or supporting persons or entities who conspire to commit acts of terror against any person or entity including as prohibited by the. patriot act currently located at https. executive order currently located at https or any similar laws and iii franchisee and each owner shall immediately notify franchisor in writing of the occurrence of any event or the development of any circumstance that might render any of the foregoing representations and warranties false inaccurate or misleading. acknowledgements. franchisee assumes sole responsibility for the operation of the business and acknowledges that while franchisor may furnish advice and assistance to franchisee from time to time during the term of this agreement franchisor has no legal or other obligation to do so except as specifically set forth herein. in addition franchisee acknowledges that franchisor does not guarantee the success or profitability of the business franchised hereunder in any manner whatsoever and shall not be liable therefor in particular franchisee understands and acknowledges that the success and profitability of the business franchised hereunder depend on many factors outside the control of either franchisor or franchisee such as interest rates unemployment rates demographic trends and the general economic climate and there are significant risks in any business venture but principally depend on franchisee efforts in the operation of the business and the primary factor in franchisee success or failure in the business franchised hereunder will be franchisee own efforts. franchisee represents that it has conducted an independent investigation of the business contemplated by this agreement and acknowledges that like any other business an investment in a painting business store painting involves business risks and that the success of the venture is dependent in part upon the business abilities and efforts of franchisee. in addition franchisee acknowledges and agrees that franchisor and its representatives have made no representations or warranties to franchisee that are inconsistent with the matters set forth in this agreement and that franchisee has undertaken this venture solely in reliance upon the matters set forth herein the contents of franchisor disclosure document and franchisee own independent investigation of the merits of this venture. https https https in witness whereof each of the undersigned has executed this franchise agreement under seal as of the effective date. franchisee if a corporation or limited liability company if not an individual name of entity by name title if a partnership name of partnership by seal general partner by seal general partner if an individual signature name of individual franchisor painting llc by name paul flick title ceo date of acceptance by name title i exhibit to franchise agreement miscellaneous information territory defined effective date franchisee name initial franchise fee address of franchisor painting llc peter jefferson parkway suite charlottesville virginia attn paul flick address of franchisee protected territory ii note franchisor may provide a map as a graphic representation of the protected territory. in the event of any conflict discrepancy or confusion the zip codes listed on this exhibit shall control. initials initials i exhibit to franchise agreement personal covenants personal covenants each of the undersigned you agrees that. section all capitalized terms used but not defined in this personal covenants shall have the meaning set forth in that certain painting painting llc franchise agreement dated as of the day of the franchise agreement by and between painting painting llc franchisor and franchisee. section you are a bound party. section as an inducement to franchisor to enter into the franchise agreement and in consideration of the direct and personal benefits you will derive from the franchise agreement you agree that i you have read and understand all the provisions of sections. and. of the franchise agreement ii you will be personally bound by all of the obligations and covenants of franchisee contained in sections. and. as if such obligations and covenants were made and given personally by you directly to franchisor and iii such obligations and covenants are fair and reasonable and will not deprive you of your livelihood. section if any sentence clause paragraph or combination of any of them in sections. and. of. of the franchise agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable as applied to you then such unenforceable sentence clause paragraph or combination may be modified by such court to the extent necessary to render it enforceable and if it cannot be so modified it shall be severed and the remainder of sections. and. shall remain in full force and effect. shall remain in full force and effect. section these personal covenants shall be governed by the internal laws of the commonwealth of virginia unless the law of your jurisdiction applies as provided for in section. of the franchise agreement. section nothing in this or in any related agreement however in intended to disclaim the representations we made in the franchise disclosure document that wefranchisor furnished to youfranchisee. ii the undersigned hereby execute and deliver this instrument effective as of the effective date of the franchise agreement. the undersigned hereby execute and deliver this instrument effective as of the effective date of the franchise agreement. signature signature print name print name date date signature signature print name print name date date signature signature print name print name date date iii signature signature print name print name date date signature signature print name print name date date signature signature print name print name date date exhibit to franchise agreement internet web sites and listings agreement internet web sites and listings agreement internet web sites and listings agreement this internet web sites and listings agreement the internet listing agreement is made and entered into as of the day of the effective date by and between painting painting llc a delaware limited liability company the franchisor and the franchisee. the franchisee. whereas franchisee desires to enter into a painting llc franchise agreement the franchise agreement to operate a painting residential and light commercial painting decorating and wall finishing services business the business and whereas franchisor would not enter into the franchise agreement without franchisee agreement to enter into comply with and be bound by all the terms and provisions of this internet listing agreement now therefore for and in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual promises and covenants contained herein and in further consideration of the franchise agreement and the mutual promises and covenants contained therein and for other good and valuable consideration the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged the parties hereto agree as follows. definitions all terms used but not otherwise defined in this internet listing agreement shall have the meanings set forth in the franchise agreement. termination of the franchise agreement shall include but shall not be limited to the voluntary termination involuntary termination or natural expiration thereof. transfer appointment. interest in internet web sites and listings. franchisee has or will acquire during the term of the franchise agreement certain right title and interest in and to certain domain names hypertext markup language uniform resource locator addresses and access to corresponding internet web sites and the right to hyperlink to certain web sites and listings on various internet search engines collectively the internet web sites and listings related to the business or the marks all of which right title and interest is referred to herein as franchisee interest. transfer. on termination of the franchise agreement if franchisor directs franchisee to do so franchisee will immediately direct all internet service providers domain name registries internet search engines and other listing agencies collectively the internet companies with which franchisee has internet web sites and listings i to transfer all of franchisee interest in such internet web sites and listings to franchisor and ii to execute such documents and take such actions as may be necessary to effectuate such transfer. in the event franchisor does not desire to accept any or all such internet web sites and listings franchisee will immediately direct the internet companies to terminate such internet web sites and listings or will take such other actions with respect to the internet web sites and listings as franchisor directs. appointment power of attorney. franchisee hereby constitutes and appoints franchisor and any officer or agent of franchisor for franchisor benefit under the franchise agreement and this internet listing agreement or otherwise with full power of substitution as franchisee true and lawful attorney in fact with full power and authority in franchisee place and stead and in franchisee name or the name of any affiliated person or affiliated company of franchisee on termination of the franchise agreement to take any and all appropriate action and to execute and deliver any and all documents that may be necessary or desirable to accomplish the purposes of this internet listing agreement. franchisee further agrees that this appointment constitutes a power coupled with an interest and is irrevocable until franchisee has satisfied all of its obligations under the franchise agreement and any and all other agreements to which franchisee and any of its affiliates on the one hand and franchisor and any of its affiliates on the other are parties including without limitation this internet listing agreement. without limiting the generality of the foregoing franchisee hereby grants to franchisor the power and right to do the following i direct the internet companies to transfer all franchisee interest in and to the internet web sites and listings to franchisor ii direct the internet companies to terminate any or all of the internet web sites and listings and iii execute the internet companies standard assignment forms or other documents in order to affect such transfer or termination of franchisee interest. certification of termination.certification of termination. franchisee hereby directs the internet companies to accept as conclusive proof of termination of the franchise agreement franchisor written statement signed by an officer or agent of franchisor that the franchise agreement has terminated. cessation of obligations.cessation of obligations. after the internet companies have duly transferred all franchisee interest in such internet web sites and listings to franchisor as between franchisee and franchisor franchise will have no further interest in or obligations under such internet web sites and listings. notwithstanding the foregoing franchisee will remain liable to each and all of the internet companies for the sums franchisee is obligated to pay such internet companies for obligations franchisee incurred before the date franchisor duly accepted the transfer of such interest or for any other obligations not subject to the franchise agreement or this internet listing agreement. miscellaneous. miscellaneous. release. franchisee hereby releases remises acquits and forever discharges each and all of the internet companies and each and all of their parent corporations subsidiaries affiliates directors officers stockholders employees and agents and the successors and assigns of any of them from any and all rights demands claims damage losses costs expenses actions and causes of action whatsoever whether in tort or in contract at law or in equity known or unknown contingent or fixed suspected or unsuspected arising out of asserted in assertable in or in any way related to this internet listing agreement. indemnification. franchisee is solely responsible for all costs and expenses related to its performance its nonperformance and franchisor enforcement of this agreement which costs and expenses franchisee will pay franchisor in full without defense or setoff on demand. franchisee agree that it will indemnify defend and hold harmless franchisor and its affiliates and its and their directors officers shareholders partners members employees agents and attorneys and the successors and assigns of any and all of them from and against and will reimburse franchisor and any and all of them for any and all loss losses damage damages claims debts claims demands or obligations that are related to or are based on this internet listing agreement. no duty. the powers conferred on franchisor hereunder are solely to protect franchisor interests and shall not impose any duty on franchisor to exercise any such powers. franchisee expressly agrees that in no event shall franchisor be obligated to accept the transfer of any or all of franchisee interest in any or all such internet web sites and listings. further assurances. franchisee agrees that at any time after the date of this internet listing agreement franchisee will perform such acts and execute and deliver such documents as may be necessary to assist in or accomplish the purposes of this internet listing agreement. successors assigns and affiliates. all franchisor rights and powers and all franchisee obligations under this internet listing agreement shall be binding on franchisee successors assigns and affiliated persons or entities as if they had duly executed this internet listing agreement. effect on other agreements. except as otherwise provided in this internet listing agreement all provisions of the franchise agreement and exhibits and schedules thereto shall remain in effect as set forth therein. nothing in this or in any related agreement however in intended to disclaim the representations wefranchisor made in the franchise disclosure document that wefranchisor furnished to youfranchisee. survival. this internet listing agreement shall survive the termination of the franchise agreement. joint and several obligations. all franchisee obligations under this internet listing agreement shall be joint and several. signatures appear on following page i in witness whereof the undersigned have executed or caused their duly authorized representatives to execute this internet web sites and listings agreement as of the effective date. franchisor painting llc by name paul flick title ceo franchisee if not an individual name of entity by name title if an individual signature printed name if other than an individual insert entity name by name title exhibit to franchise agreement telephone listing agreement telephone listing agreement this telephone listing agreement the telephone listing agreement is made and entered into as of the day of the effective date by and between paintingpainting llc a delaware limited liability company hereinafter the franchisor and the franchisee. whereas franchisee desires to enter into a painting llc franchise agreement the franchise agreement to operate a painting residential and light commercial painting decorating and wall finishing services business the business and whereas franchisor would not enter into the franchise agreement without franchisee agreement to enter into comply with and be bound by all the terms and provisions of this telephone listing agreement now therefore for and in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual promises and covenants contained herein and in further consideration of the franchise agreement and the mutual promises and covenants contained therein and for other good and valuable consideration the receipt and sufficiency of all of which are hereby acknowledged the parties hereto agree as follows. definitions all terms used but not otherwise defined in this telephone listing agreement shall have the meanings set forth in the franchise agreement. termination of the franchise agreement shall include but shall not be limited to the voluntary termination involuntary termination or natural expiration thereof. transfer appointment. interest in telephone numbers and listings. franchisee has or will acquire during the term of the franchise agreement certain right title and interest in and to those certain telephone numbers and regular classified yellow page and other telephone directory listings collectively the telephone numbers and listings related to the business or the marks all of which right title and interest is referred to herein as franchisee interest. transfer. on termination of the franchise agreement if franchisor directs franchisee to do so franchisee will immediately direct all telephone companies telephone directory publishers and telephone directory listing agencies collectively the telephone companies with which franchisee has telephone numbers and listings i to transfer all franchisee interest in such telephone numbers and listings to franchisor and ii to execute such documents and take such actions as may be necessary to effectuate such transfer. in the event franchisor does not desire to accept any or all such telephone numbers and listings franchisee will immediately direct the telephone companies to terminate such telephone numbers and listings or will take such other actions with respect to the telephone numbers and listings as franchisor directs. appointment power of attorney. franchisee hereby constitutes and appoints franchisor and any officer or agent of franchisor for franchisor benefit under the franchise agreement and this telephone listing agreement or otherwise with full power of substitution as franchisee true and lawful attorney in fact with full power and authority in franchisee place and stead and in franchisee name or the name of any affiliated person or affiliated company of franchisee on termination of the franchise agreement to take any and all appropriate action and to execute and deliver any and all documents that may be necessary or desirable to accomplish the purposes of this telephone listing agreement. franchisee further agrees that this appointment constitutes a power coupled with an interest and is irrevocable until franchisee has satisfied all of its obligations under the franchise agreement and any and all other agreements to which franchisee and any of its affiliates on the one hand and franchisor and any of its affiliates on the other are parties including without limitation this telephone listing agreement. without limiting the generality of the foregoing franchisee hereby grants to franchisor the power and right to do the following i direct the telephone companies to transfer all franchisee interest in and to the telephone numbers and listings to franchisor ii direct the telephone companies to terminate any or all of the telephone numbers and listings and iii execute the telephone companies standard assignment forms or other documents in order to effect such transfer or termination of franchisee interest. certification of termination.certification of termination. franchisee hereby directs the telephone companies that they shall accept as conclusive proof of termination of the franchise agreement franchisor written statement signed by an officer or agent of franchisor that the franchise agreement has terminated. cessation of obligations.cessation of obligations. after the telephone companies have duly transferred all franchisee interest in such telephone numbers and listings to franchisor as between franchisee and franchisor franchisee will have no further interest in or obligations under such telephone numbers and listings. notwithstanding the foregoing franchisee will remain liable to each and all of the telephone companies for the sums franchisee is obligated to pay such telephone companies for obligations franchisee incurred before the date franchisor duly accepted the transfer of such interest or for any other obligations not subject to the franchise agreement or this telephone listing agreement. miscellaneous. miscellaneous. release. franchisee hereby releases remises acquits and forever discharges each and all of the telephone companies and each and all of their parent corporations subsidiaries affiliates directors officers stockholders employees and agents and the successors and assigns of any of them from any and all rights demands claims damage losses costs expenses actions and causes of action whatsoever whether in tort or in contract at law or in equity known or unknown contingent or fixed suspected or unsuspected arising out of asserted in assertable in or in any way related to this telephone listing agreement. indemnification. franchisee is solely responsible for all costs and expenses related to franchisee performance franchisee nonperformance and franchisor enforcement of this agreement which costs and expenses franchisee will pay franchisor in full without defense or setoff on demand. franchisee agrees that it will indemnify defend and hold harmless franchisor and its affiliates and the directors officers shareholders partners members employees agents and attorneys of franchisor and its affiliates and the successors and assigns of any and all of them from and against and will reimburse franchisor and any and all of them for any and all loss losses damage damages claims debts claims demands or obligations that are related to or are based on this telephone listing agreement. no duty. the powers conferred on franchisor under this telephone listing agreement are solely to protect franchisor interests and shall not impose any duty on franchisor to exercise any such powers. franchisee expressly agrees that in no event shall franchisor be obligated to accept the transfer of any or all of franchisee interest in any or all such telephone numbers and listings. further assurances. franchisee agrees that at any time after the date hereof it will perform such acts and execute and deliver such documents as may be necessary to assist in or accomplish the purposes of this telephone listing agreement. successors assigns and affiliates. all franchisor rights and powers and all franchisee obligations under this telephone listing agreement shall be binding on franchisee successors assigns and affiliated persons or entities as if they had duly executed this telephone listing agreement. effect on other agreements. except as otherwise provided in this telephone listing agreement all provisions of the franchise agreement and exhibits and schedules thereto shall remain in effect as set forth therein. nothing in this or in any related agreement however in intended to disclaim the representations wefranchisor made in the franchise disclosure document that wefranchisor furnished to youfranchisee. survival. this telephone listing agreement shall survive the termination of the franchise agreement. joint and several obligations. all franchisee obligations under this telephone listing agreement shall be joint and several. signatures appear on following page i in witness whereof the parties hereto have duly executed and delivered this telephone listing agreement as of the effective date. franchisor painting llc by name paul flick title ceo franchisee if not an individual name of entity by name title if an individual signature printed name if other than an individual insert entity name by name title exhibit to franchise agreement franchisee information. franchisee legal organization circlemark one a sole proprietorship partnership corporation limited liability company or other. other. if franchisee is not a sole proprietor list of all its partners members or shareholders or others including other entities holding any ownership interest in franchisee name and address interest active in operation of business? yes no a name and address interest active in operation of business? yes no a if franchisee is not a sole proprietor list of franchisee officers directors managers and or general partners name title a signature appears on following page i the undersigned certifies that all information contained in this exhibit is accurate and complete and agrees to notify franchisor promptly and in any case within days upon any change in the information required to be disclosed in this exhibit. franchisee if not an individual name of entity by name title if an individual signature printed name if other than an individual insert entity name by name title i exhibit to franchise agreement guaranty agreement guaranty agreement in consideration of and as an inducement to the execution by painting llc franchisor of that certain painting llc franchise agreement dated as the same from time to time may be amended modified extended or renewed the franchise agreement by and between franchisee and franchisor the undersigned guarantor for the term of the franchise agreement and any extension or renewal thereof and thereafter until all obligations of franchisee to franchisor have been satisfied jointly and severally do hereby personally absolutely and unconditionally guarantee that franchisee shall punctually pay and perform each and every undertaking condition and covenant set forth in the franchise agreement. each of the undersignedguarantor further waives acceptance and notice of acceptance of the foregoing obligations of franchisee and any right the undersigned may have to require that an action be brought against franchisee or any other person as a condition to the liability of the undersignedguarantor. this guaranty is a guarantee of payment and performance not merely one of collection. each of the undersigned guarantor further consents and agrees that its liability under this guaranty shall be direct and immediate and joint and several that the undersignedguarantor shall render any payment or performance required under the franchise agreement upon demand if franchisee fails or refuses punctually to do so that such liability shall not be contingent or conditioned upon the pursuit of any remedies against franchisee or any other person and that such liability shall not be diminished relieved or otherwise affected by the extension of time credit or any other indulgence which franchisor its affiliates successors or assigns may from time to time grant to franchisee or to any other person including without limitation the acceptance of any partial payment or performance or the compromise or release of any claims or the release of any one or more of the undersignedguarantors hereunder or the consent to assignment of any interest in franchisee none of which shall in any way modify or amend this guaranty which shall be continuing and irrevocable until all obligations of franchisee to franchisor have been satisfied. until all obligations of franchisee to franchisor have been satisfied the obligations of the undersignedguarantor under this guaranty shall remain in full force and effect without regard to and shall not be released discharged or in any way modified or affected by any circumstance or condition whether or not the undersigned shall have any knowledge or notice thereof including without limitation any bankruptcy insolvency reorganization composition liquidation or similar proceeding with respect to franchisee or its properties or creditors or any action taken by any trustee or receiver or by any court in any such ii proceeding. your guarantor liability will not be contingent or conditioned on ourfranchisor pursuit of any remedies against franchisee or any other person. the remedies provided herein shall be nonexclusive and cumulative of all other rights powers and remedies provided under the franchise agreement or by law or in equity. the undersignedguarantor hereby agreeagrees that without the consent of or notice to any of the undersignedguarantor and without affecting any of the obligations of the undersignedguarantor hereunder any term covenant or condition of the franchise agreement may be amended compromised released or otherwise altered by franchisor and the franchisee and the undersigned do guaranteeguarantor guarantees and promisepromises to perform all of the obligations of the franchisee under the franchise agreement as so amended compromised released or altered. upon notice from franchisor that franchisee has failed to pay monies due and owing to franchisor under the franchise agreement any and each of the undersigned agreeguarantor agrees to cure the monetary default within five business days from such notice. any and all notices required or permitted under this guaranty shall be personally delivered sent by certified mail or sent by any other means including without limitation overnight courier service such as ups fedex or a similar service which affords the sender evidence of delivery or attempted delivery. the address es for notices to guarantor is are indicated below unless and until a different address has been designated by written notice to franchisor. the address for notices to franchisor shall be as designated in the franchise agreement. upon the death of an undersigneda guarantor the estate of such undersignedguarantor shall be bound by this guaranty but only for defaults and obligations hereunder existing at the time of death. the obligations of the surviving undersignedguarantors shall continue in full force and effect. the undersignedguarantor expressly acknowledgeacknowledges that the obligations hereunder survive the termination or expiration of the franchise agreement. franchisor failure to enforce all or any portion of its rights under this guaranty shall not constitute a waiver of its ability to do so at any point in the future. no delay or failure of franchisor in the exercise of any right power or remedy shall operate as a waiver thereof and no partial exercise by franchisor shall preclude any further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right power or remedy. this guaranty shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the commonwealth of virginia without recourse that state or any other choice of law or conflicts of law principles. if however any provision of this guaranty would not be enforceable under the laws of that statethe commonwealth of virginia and if the business franchised under the franchise agreement is located outside of that statethe commonwealth of virginia and the provision would be enforceable under the laws of the state in which the iii franchised business is located then the provision and only that provision will be interpreted and construed under the laws of that state. nothing in this guaranty is intended to invoke the application of any franchise business opportunity antitrust implied covenant unfair competition fiduciary or other doctrine of law of the commonwealth of virginia or any other state which would not otherwise apply. any litigation initiated under this guaranty shall be instituted exclusively at franchisor discretion in the most immediate state judicial district and court encompassing franchisor headquarters and having subject matter jurisdiction thereof or the united states district court encompassing franchisor headquarters. each of the undersigned guarantor expressly agrees that the undersignedguarantor is subject to the jurisdiction and venue of those courts for purposes of such litigation. each of the undersignedguarantor hereby waivewaives and covenantcovenants never to assert any claim that the undersignedguarantor is not subject to personal jurisdiction in those courts or that venue in those courts is for any reason improper inconvenient prejudicial or otherwise inappropriate including without limitation any claim under the judicial doctrine of forum non conveniens. if franchisor chooses to proceed against the undersignedguarantor under this guaranty and franchisor prevails the undersignedguarantor shall reimburse franchisor its costs and expenses associated with the proceeding including its reasonable attorneys fees court costs and expenses. each paragraph provision and term of this agreement shall be considered severable and if any paragraph provision or term herein is ruled to be unenforceable unreasonable or invalid such ruling shall not impair the operation of or affect the remaining portions paragraphs parts terms and provisions of this agreement and the latter shall continue to be given full force and effect and bind the parties and such unenforceable unreasonable or invalid paragraphs parts terms or provisions shall be deemed not part of this agreement. in witness whereof each of the undersigned has hereunto affixed its signature this day ofon. guarantors agreed name of guarantor franchisor painting llc seal signature by address name paul flick iv its ceo social security number name of guarantor seal signature address social security number seal signature address social security number i exhibit to franchise agreement general release general release this general release is made effective this day of. in consideration for the grant by painting llc a delaware limited liability company to the undersigned of certain rights in connection with the operation of a painting business and or the transfer termination or renewal thereof and for other good and valuable consideration the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged the undersigned individually and collectively hereby unconditionally release discharge and acquit franchisor its past and present subsidiaries and affiliates and its and their shareholders owners directors officers managers members partners employees agents representatives successors and assigns from any and all liabilities damages claims demands costs expenses debts indemnities suits disputes controversies actions and causes of action of any kind whatsoever whether known or unknown fixed or contingent regarding or arising out of any prior or existing franchise relationship development agreement franchise agreement or any other agreement executed by any of the undersigned and painting llc or any subsidiary or affiliate of painting llc any painting business whether currently or previously owned or operated by the undersigned or any of them or any other prior or existing business relationship between any of the undersigned and painting llc or any subsidiary or affiliate of painting llc which the undersigned or any of them individually or collectively has asserted may have asserted or could have asserted against painting llc or any of the aforementioned related parties at any time up to the date of this general release including specifically without limitation claims arising from contract written or oral communications alleged misrepresentations and acts of negligence whether active or passive. this general release shall survive the assignment or termination of any of the franchise agreements or other documents entered into by and between painting llc and any of the undersigned. this general release is not intended as a waiver of those rights of the undersigned which cannot be waived under applicable state franchise laws. this general release shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the state in which franchisor maintains its principal place of business at the time any dispute resolution proceeding is commenced by either party without regard to its conflicts of law provisions. witness by name title individually individually i exhibit to franchise agreement ach authorization authorize painting llc to initiate an electronic debit against the bank account according to the terms outlined below. acknowledge that the origination of the ach transactions must comply with the provisioning of united states law. billing commences upon signature of this form and is subsequently debited monthly until notify painting llc of its cancellation by sending written notice in such time and manner to allow both painting llc and receiving financial institution a reasonable opportunity in which to act upon it. business checking ach information legal checking account name dba banking institution bank aba routing number bank account number business contact information street address city state zip code phone number customer signature customer printed name date signed please attach a copy of a voided check. exhibit to painting llc franchise disclosure document painting llc operations manual table of contents exhibit to the franchise disclosure document painting franchise operations manual table of contents preface introduction section mission statement welcome letter services provided to franchisees accountability pre opening procedures section pre opening checklist planning for your successful business establishment of business form accounting system setting up your office vehicle specifications signage and logo specifications contracting with required utilities and services obtaining required licenses and permits setting up bank accounts getting insurance meeting your tax obligations initial inventory conducting a grand opening business commencement personnel section eeoc guidelines laws regarding harassment immigration reform control act wage and labor laws working with independent contractors job descriptions employee profile recruitment the interview process hiring on a trial basis developing personnel policies employee orientation confidentiality training managing motivating painters performance evaluations tracking effectiveness of sales staff recommended commission system for area managers uniform and dress code time reporting progressive discipline termination separation sales procedures section incoming sales calls professional selling skills preparing for sales activities sales presentation pricing jobs closing the sale looking for referrals office procedures section suggested hours of operation customer service customer relations scheduling services billing procedures inventory management franchise reporting financial statements maintaining vehicles safety and security service procedures section customer relations production planning management marketing advertising section marketing advertising media using painting marks required advertising expenditures public relations community involvement obtaining advertising approval exhibit to painting llc franchise disclosure document finanial statements exhibit to painting llc franchise disclosure document list of current franchisees as of december signed but not yet open as of signed in pre opening checklistst nameb address email phone planning for your successful businessal brent edwards riverbend club drive north-east atlanta georgia bedwards painting.com alabama philip hagan old country road daphne alabama phagan painting.com arkansas kurt southworth south-west street bentonville arkansas ksouthworth painting.com arizona enrique childs foothill drive casa grande arizona echilds painting.com colorado becca vigilanese foster avenue longmont colorado rvigilanese painting.com colorado jay nelson balcarrick court windsor colorado jnelson painting.com colorado rick sheila carmichael aksarben avenue littleton colorado rcarmichael painting.com colorado karen gordey th avenue unit arvada colorado kgordey painting.com colorado scott renee kewley willow glen drive colorado springs colorado skewley painting.com court mike handel old mill road wilton court mhandel painting.com floruit jose garcia south-west road avenue road miami floruit jgarcia painting.com floruit karen willet north-west th terrace pembroke pines floruit kwillet painting.com floruit omar hernandez grand national drive orlando floruit ohernandez painting.com floruit vicente lombardo blue lagoon drive miami floruit vlombardo painting.com floruit vicente nuzzolo yarmouth drive wellington floruit vnuzzolo painting.com floruit mary donald bynum saboda court tampa floruit dbynum painting.com inserted cells inserted cells inserted cells pre opening checklistst nameb address email phone floruit ryan glazier street avenue street petersburg floruit rglazier painting.com floruit kris donker. baypoint circle parkland floruit kdonker painting.com floruit glen konowal kerwood circle oviedo floruit gkonowal painting.com floruit chris brian seufert eaglewood street valrico floruit cseufert painting.com floruit jeff emily may eagle hammock drive sarasota floruit jmay painting.com georgia eddie mccoy mcbride lane gainesville georgia emccoy painting.com georgia ozzie guevara wyndham woods trail powder springs georgia oguevara painting.com georgia rich margaret groark berrywood way cumming georgia rgroark painting.com georgia hollis dawson terra view drive south-west lilburn georgia hdawson painting.com georgia heath higgins fearn circle north-east brookhaven georgia hhiggins painting.com idaho james anderson pebblestone court meridian idaho janderson painting.com illinois brian conrad fairmont avenue naperville illinois bconrad painting.com illinois ebrahim ayub dempster street skokie illinois eayub painting.com illinois greg degregorio south stone avenue louisiana grange illinois gdegregorio painting.com illinois christian robert south capitol street apartment iowa city iowa crobert painting.com in galya stanifer heatherwood drive greenwood in gstanifer painting.com iowa aaron tooman south-west th street ankeny iowa atooman painting.com kansas andy toburen green street shawnee kansas atoburen painting.com key marty mcgraw vinita way louisville key mmcgraw painting.com key mike sarah rader caddy court lawrenceburg key mrader painting.com louisiana geoff begnaud woodlake lafayette louisiana gbegnaud painting.com massachusetts glenn misiph decarolis drive tewksbury massachusetts gmisiph painting.com inserted cells inserted cells inserted cells pre opening checklistst nameb address email phone medicinae doctor dan gibson sundale drive silver spring. medicinae doctor dgibson painting.com medicinae doctor lorna kerr brandt place bethesda medicinae doctor lkerr painting.com medicinae doctor anthony pollard susan hodges place upper marlboro medicinae doctor apollard painting.com michigan sarah brandenburg. melita road sterling michigan sbrandenburg painting.com michigan dave echols fawn valley trail fenton michigan dechols painting.com michigan chris ring twinbrook drive perrysburg oh cring painting.com minnesota erech gallatin wayzata boulevard street louis park minnesota egallatin painting.com minnesota james lord morgan avenue south minneapolis minnesota jlord painting.com month shawn weigel silverleaf lane liberty month sweigel painting.com north-east thomas dorn street omaha north-east tdorn painting.com north carolina gabor kiki jacques magnolia avenue charlotte north carolina gjacques painting.com north carolina geoff fair summerview lane cary north carolina gfair painting.com north carolina james watson westridge drive high point north carolina jwatson painting.com north carolina john belinda weisehan rea road charlotte north carolina jweisehan painting.com north carolina william abbey eversfield lane charlotte north carolina wabbey painting.com north carolina yanling piacenti shadow mist court apex north carolina ypiacenti painting.com north carolina michael santana jolly maggies court jacksonville north carolina mjolly painting.com north carolina james norconk locust meadow lane weaverville north carolina jnorconk painting.com north carolina adam ratcliff watauga village drive boone north carolina aratcliff painting.com new jersey paul bratone lake avenue fair haven new jersey pbratone painting.com new jersey royal daniel boulevard mountain lakes new jersey rdaniel painting.com new jersey john shave west bay way lavallette new jersey jshave painting.com inserted cells inserted cells inserted cells mailto cring painting.com mailto ypiacenti painting.com pre opening checklistst nameb address email phone new jersey robert stalter paddock lane flemington new jersey rstalter painting.com new mexico chris teresa scott sugar ridge loop rio rancho new mexico cscott painting.com new york mike rowan faller street oceanside new york mrowan painting.com new york david witchley trails crossing whitesboro new york dwitchley painting.com oh gabriela cerrillo eduardo esquivel montgomery road suite cincinnati oh eesquivel painting.com oh frank karen beodray barton road north olmstead oh fbeodray painting.com oh john smithson epic way columbus oh jsmithson painting.com ok steven hudspeth. fern place glenpool ok shudspeth painting.com or collins bradford th street astoria or cbradford painting.com or william carr th street oregon city or wcarr painting.com or derek wolfe north-west pettygrove street portland or dwolfe painting.com pennsylvania jerry daugherty south th street hughesville pennsylvania jdaugherty painting.com pennsylvania gabe colon winding oak york pennsylvania gcolon painting.com pennsylvania james falletta establishment of business form accounting system penn circle g king of prussia pennsylvania jfalletta painting.com setting up your officepa anthony tassoni signal road drexel pennsylvania atassoni painting.com vehicle specificationssc josh amos. north street greenville scottish jamos painting.com signage and logo specificationssc paul kim bresnan atlantic pines charleston scottish pbresnan painting.com contracting with required utilities and servicessd travis saxer valley view circle valley springs south dakota tsaxer painting.com obtaining required licenses and permitstn henry brown brookridge circle cordova tennessee hbrown painting.com inserted cells inserted cells inserted cells inserted cells inserted cells inserted cells inserted cells inserted cells mailto mrowan painting.com mailto fbeodray painting.com mailto shudspeth painting.com mailto jdaugherty painting.com mailto jamos painting.com mailto pbresnan painting.com mailto tsaxer painting.com pre opening checklistst nameb address email phone setting up bank accountstn mack sharon strange fountainhead drive brentwood tennessee mstrange painting.com getting insurancetn jeremy painter medical center parkway monroe tennessee jpainter painting.com meeting your tax obligationstx james ambler club oak court prosper texas jambler painting.com initial inventorytx alberto spera hermosa arroyo drive league city texas aspera painting.com texas cindy mcclanahan oakwood manor lane cypress texas cmcclanahan painting.com texas clinton arthur kokomo lane bastrop texas carthur painting.com texas craig sharon stone san jacinto court southlake texas cstone painting.com texas hernan bermudez lillian street houston texas hbermudez painting.com texas bret broussard elizabeth road san antonio texas bbroussard painting.com texas robert lehner lakefield drive little elm texas blehner painting.com texas leonardo hernandez pennland avenue cypress texas lhernandez painting.com texas matt betsy mitchell osnats point san antonio texas mmitchell painting.com texas chris maryann nichols selby street el paso texas cnichols painting.com texas steve tucker shadowdale drive houston texas stucker painting.com texas korey williams conducting a portillo grand opening business commencementprairie texas kwilliams painting.com utah eric johnson lakeview stansbury park utah ejohnson painting.com utah garrett faucette sierra bonita court mapleton utah gfaucette painting.com virginia justin rowling tanzanite drive harrisonburg virginia jrowling painting.com inserted cells inserted cells inserted cells inserted cells inserted cells inserted cells mailto cstone painting.com mailto ejohnson painting.com pre opening checklistst nameb address email phone virginia rodrigo silva casatille road apartment henrico virginia rsilva painting.com vermont jody hancock diamond street street albans vermont jhancock painting.com washington john battts river vista loop mount vernon washington jbatts painting.com washington david deblasio south street avenue yakima washington ddeblasio painting.com wisconsin nick maniaci marilyn drive elm grove wisconsin nmaniaci painting.com wisconsin amy leitzke north mccabe road kaukauna wisconsin aleitzke painting.com canada saskatchewan terry wuschenny th street east saskatoon saskatchewan canada twuschenny painting.com inserted cells inserted cells inserted cells exhibit gpersonnel section to painting llc franchise disclosure document list of franchisees who have left the system january to december eeoc guidelinesst namec city phone laws regarding harassmental royal miller gadsden immigration reform control actaz scott rhoades chandler wage and labor lawsca debbie carreno el cajon working with independent contractorsct kristy jensen tolland job descriptionsfl eric wall street augustine employee profilefl ryan warren pensacola recruitmentil robert sterling frankfort the interview processla nick francois youngsville hiring on a trial basismi jason egleston dewitt developing personnel policiesmo andrew dowd street louis employee orientationnv sean bellinger henderson confidentialitynh thomas haydock hooksett trainingny dain carver white plains managing motivating paintersoh james dorff west chester performance evaluationsoh randy ghaster toledo oh robbie austin cuyahoga falls tennessee brent gabele franklin texas courtney canadeo austin texas jeremy wood cedar park texas joe martinez deer park texas michael cope waxahachie texas ramon ramos victoria texas scott allison katy virginia derrick hannick fredricksburg wisconsin ana esper hartland wisconsin james maas milwaukee canada ontario bill bath courtice inserted cells inserted cells ontario steve dixon oakville tracking effectiveness of sales staff recommended commission system for area managers uniform and dress code time reporting progressive discipline termination separation left system indiana signed but never opened. sales procedures section incoming sales calls professional selling skills preparing for sales activities sales presentation pricing jobs closing the sale looking for referrals office procedures section suggested hours of operation customer service customer relations scheduling services billing procedures inventory management franchise reporting financial statements maintaining vehicles safety and security service procedures section customer relations production planning management marketing advertising section marketing advertising media using painting marks required advertising expenditures public relations community involvement obtaining advertising approval exhibit painting llc nondisclosure agreement for confidential operations manuals exhibit to the painting llc franchise disclosure document exhibit dated non disclosure agreement by signing this agreement name of address recipient acknowledges and assumes all of the benefits and obligations contained in the operative part of this agreement and agrees to be bound by it and acknowledges that this agreement is intended to benefit painting llc painting background at the recipient request painting has agreed to disclose certain confidential information for the approved purpose or allow the recipient access to it during which the recipient will be exposed to or may learn certain confidential information. in consideration of painting agreeing to disclose the confidential information to the recipient or allow the recipient access to it the recipient agrees to ensure that all confidential information is kept confidential and abide by the terms and conditions of this document. operative part definitions and interpretation definitions in this document unless the context otherwise requires approved purpose means any and all acts and things relating in any way to the businesses of painting its constituent members and persons or entities related to those constituent members. confidential information means and information has a corresponding meaning all information concerning painting business model plans procedures and practices as disclosed in all painting operations manuals regardless of whether or not the information is marked as confidential. confidential information does not include information that is available in the public domain or is useless or trivial at the time the information is imparted to the recipient or when the recipient acquires the information. information does not stop being confidential information merely because at a time after the recipient became aware of it the information becomes public knowledge because of an act of the recipient contrary to this agreement is placed into the public domain by or with the consent of painting. exhibit recipient includes the person named in this agreement as the recipient and its directors officers agents representatives advisers and any other person having access to the confidential information through the recipient. exhibit general acknowledgments the recipient acknowledges and agrees that a no right license proprietary right entitlement or interest in the confidential information is extended to or conveyed to it except as set out in this document the confidential information is valuable to painting if there is any actual or threatened breach or default by any person under this document damages will not be an adequate remedy and painting may seek injunctive relief to prevent or end any such breach or default painting is entitled to an injunction specific performance or any other relief or remedy available at law or equity without proof of special damage the confidential information may be incomplete inaccurate and may contain errors and the recipient uses and relies on the confidential information at its own risk confidentiality. non disclosure a the recipient undertakes that for the longer of a five years from the date of this agreement or the time it has any business association with painting and for three years after the business association ends recipient will i keep confidential preserve and protect the confidential information ii comply with any request made by painting in relation to the protection or preservation of the confidential information iii not use including disclose in any way the confidential information for any purpose other than the approved purpose including to obtain any commercial advantage or benefit for itself or any other person or where the use or disclosure may or does cause detriment to painting or painting regional developers or unit franchisees. the recipient undertakes that unless permitted under clause it will not disclose the confidential information to anyone except i where an agent representative professional adviser or other person being a person being approved of in writing by painting of the recipient needs to know and the disclosure is strictly necessary to assist the recipient in using the confidential information for the approved purpose and only so much of the confidential information as is necessary to achieve provide sufficient information to the third party recipient is disclosed and recipient has obtained the agreement of the third party recipient to be bound by and comply with the terms of this document by entering into a non disclosure document or agreement approved by painting and containing as a minimum each obligation imposed on recipient by this agreement from each of those persons. exhibit. destruction or return of materials if painting asks to do so the recipient must immediately return or destroy the confidential information in compliance with painting request. exceptions to confidentiality. when restrictions do not apply the obligations of the recipient under clause do not apply a to any portion of any confidential information which is required to be disclosed by any law judicial or governmental body to any portion of any confidential information which is or becomes generally available to the public through no fault act or omission of the recipient or its recipients agents representatives professional advisers or other persons authorised under clause. i disclosures by the recipient to any governmental or law enforcement agency concerning any alleged violation by painting of the federal trade commission franchise sales rule or any state franchise sales law or disclosures by the recipient in connection with pursuing any potential case against painting alleging violation of any franchise sales law. notice and other obligations a if clause. a applies before making any disclosure the recipient must i notify painting in writing of the requirement to make the disclosure ii assist and colorado operate with painting in taking any action painting considers appropriate to challenge or oppose the required disclosure iii follow any direction of painting in relation to any aspect of the disclosure or proposed disclosure and discuss the form and content of the disclosure with painting. if clause. a applies the recipient must only disclose so much of the confidential information as is necessary to comply with the lawful request. indemnity the recipient indemnifies and will hold painting harmless from any action or claim by or liability to any person for any loss damage cost or expense including any consequential loss damage cost or expense whether direct or indirect arising from or caused by a any breach of the recipient obligations under this document or any act or omission of the recipient directors officers employees agents representatives advisers or any other person authorised under clause. i which would constitute a breach of recipient obligations under this document if such act or omission was the act or omission of recipient. governing law and jurisdiction the laws of the united states and the commonwealth of virginia govern this agreement. each party irrevocably submits to the non exclusive jurisdiction of the virginia courts including if necessary courts exercising federal jurisdiction and courts of appeal of those courts. in addition recipient agrees that if painting prevails in any action arising from or related to this agreement recipient exhibit shall be obligated to pay painting all of its reasonable costs incurred in connection with that action including but not limited to attorneys fees and court costs. waiver waiver of any breach or non performance of this document will only be effective if it is written and signed by painting and only to the extent specified. severance any clause of this document that is found to be void voidable or unenforceable shall be severable and have no effect on the other clauses of this document. executed as an agreement at place by name signature witness name signature exhibit painting llc financial statements exhibit to the franchise disclosure document exhibit painting llc financial statements and independent auditor report december compliance and exhibit exhibit painting llc table of contents independent auditor report financial statements balance sheet statement of income and retained earnings deficit statement of cash flows notes to financial statements exhibit eric. lampl cpa incorporated ligorto ve nue cincinnati ohio independent auditor report to the board of directors painting llc have audited the accompanying financial statements of painting llc which comprise the balance sheets as of december and and the related statements of income retained earnings and cash flows for the years then ended and the related notes to the financial statements. management responsibility for lite financial statements management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america this includes the design implementation and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements that arcade free from material misstatement whether due to fraud or error. auditor responsibility my responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on my audits. conducted my audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the united states of america. those standards require that plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. an audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. the procedures selected depend on the auditor judgment including the assessment of the risks or material misstatement of the financial statement whether due to fraud or error. lane making those risk assessments the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity internal control. accordingly express no such opinion. an audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by management as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. believe that the audit evidence have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my audit opinion. opinion in my opinion the financial statements referred to above present fairly in all material respects the financial position of painting llc as of december and and the results or their operations and their cash flows for the years then ended in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. lampl april exhibit painting llc balance sheet december assets current assets cash accounts receivable franchisees royalties due from others total current assets fixed assets equipment accumulated depreciation total fixed assets liabilities and stockholers equity current liabilities accounts payable due to others total current liabilities member equity see auditor report and accompanying information. exhibit painting llc balance sheet december revenue expenses advertising and marketing auto bank and payroll fees bad debt commissions computer and internet depreciation dues and subscriptions employee benefits filing fees franchisee related insurance interest leased employees office and supplies professional fees rent repairs and maintenance travel utilities total expenses operating profit other income expenses donations total other income expenses net income members equity beginning contributions distributions retained earnings ending see auditor report and accompanying information. exhibit painting llc statements of cash flows december and cash flows from opera ting activities net income adjustment to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities depreciation change in accounts receivable franchisees royalties due from others accounts payable payroll taxes due to others cash provided by operations cash flows from investing ac tivities acquisition of fixed assets cash used by investing activ ities cash flows from financing activities contributions distributions cash used from financing activities change in cash cash at beginning of year cash at end of year see auditor report and accompanying information. exhibit painting llc notes to financial statements at december and note summary of significant accounting polic ies nature of business and trade name painting llc the company is a corporation organized under the laws of the state of virginia. the company was organized to promote sell and support franchises. the company franchisees offer painting services. as of december line and painting llc had ninety four seventy three and seventy three franchises operating in north america. use of estimates the process of preparing financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions regarding certain assets liabilities revenues and expenses. certain estimates relate to unsettled transactions and events as of the date of the financial statements and relate to assumptions about the ongoing operations and may impact future periods. accordingly upon settlement actual results may differ from estimated amounts. income tax status the company is a single member llc for tax purposes. accordingly taxable income and losses of the company arcade reported on the income tax returns of the company member and no provision for income taxes has been recorded in the accompanying financial statements. advertising expense advertising costs arcade charged to operations when incurred. fixed assets the cost of fixed assets is depreciated over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. depreciation is computed on the accelerated methods for both financial reporting and income tax purposes. maintenance and repairs costs are charged to operations when incurred. exhibit painting llc notes to financial statements at december and note cash and cash equivalents cash and cash equivalents include the company cash in bank. the company has no other assets that would be classified as a cash equivalent. the federal deposit insurance corporation fdic insures account balances up to for each business depositor through december. the fdic had insured line of all non interest bearing accounts through both december. using this criteria the company may have had cash in certain financial institutions in excess of insured limits. at december line and the company did not have cash in excess of insured limits. note marketing fund franchisees the company administers a national marketing fund the fund on behalf of its franchisees. each franchisee is required to contribute per month to the fund which is used to develop advertising and marketing materials and promote the company service marks and franchisee services on a local regional and national basis. neither receipts nor expenditures of the marketing fund are recorded on the company income statement. note due from others the company has lent to their holding company premium service brands funds to purchase other franchising opportunity. if not paid back within a year the amount loaned will be converted to a note payable. note uncertain tax position th company files income tax returns in the. federal jurisdiction and local jurisdiction. as of december no authorities have commenced tax examinations the company. federal income tax returns prior to are closed. and local jurisdiction have statutes of limitations that generally range from three to five years. the company follows the provisions of uncertain tax provisions as addressed in fasb accounting standards codification. the company recognized no increase in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits. the company has no tax position at december for which the ultimate deductibility is highly certain but for there is uncertainty about the timing of such deductibility. the company recognizes interest accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits in interest expense and penalties in operating expenses. no such interest or penalties were recognized during the periods presented. the company had no accruals for interest and penalties at december and. the company does not expect the balance of unrecognized tax benefits to change by a material amount in the next twelve months. note subsequent events management has evaluated events through april the date on which the financial statements were available for issue. the company did not have any events subsequent to december through april to disclose. exhibit eric lampl cpa incorporated ligorio avenue cincinnati ohio fax consent of accountant eric lampl cpa incorporated consents to the use in the franchise disclosure document issued by painting llc franchisor on april as it may be amended of our report dated april relating to the financial statements of painting llc for the period ending december and. eric lampl cpa incorporated by eric lampl exhibit pm painting balance sheet accrual basis as of september assets current assets sep checking savings boa checking. canadian clearing account total checking savings. accounts receivable accounts receivable. total accounts receivable. other current assets loans to franchisees loan patnode. total loans to franchisees. due from virginia due from premium service. due from rdu. undeposited funds. total other current assets. total current assets. fixed assets computers fixed asset accumulated depreciation. computers fixed asset other. total computers fixed asset. office equipment. total fixed assets. total assets. liabilities equity liabilities current liabilities accounts payable accounts payable. total accounts payable. other current liabilities ascensus kelvin total other current liabilities. total current liabilities. total liabilities. equity common stock. members draw. members equity. opening balance equity. retained earnings. net income. total equity. total liabilities equity. page exhibit pm painting profit loss accrual basis january through september january sep ordinary income expense income additional mail. ad fundamental convention fee. convention sponsorship. customer care center income. franchise fee. late fee. miscellaneous income. rebate benjamin moore. rebate ppg. rebate sherwin williams. royalty. technology fee. termination fee. total income. gross profit. expense postage and delivery. computer and internet expenses. employee relocation expense. bad debt. convention advertising and promotion signs. television. billboards. vehicle wrap. facebook. graphic design. entrepreneur media. home show booths. marketing creation. public relations. seo. sprout social. website. yp. advertising and promotion other. total advertising and promotion. automobile expense mileage. gas. parking. total automobile expense. bank service charges. discovery day. dues and subscriptions. filing fee. franchise broker commission. franchise convention franchise development membership. lead development. broker listing. franchise portal. meals entertainment. registration fee conference. software. software emaximation. page exhibit pm painting profit loss accrual basis january through september january sep total franchise development. franchise support franchisee training materials. meals. trainer hotel expense. total franchisee training. insurance expense workers comp. health insurance. total insurance expense. licenses permits. merchant bank fees office expense office supplies. software. total office expense. payroll expenses call center. operations development. commissions. total payroll expenses. professional fees accounting. legal. total professional fees. rent expense telephone expense. call center. cell phone. ring central. telephone expense other. total telephone expense. travel expense air. hotel. meals and entertainment. per diem. rental car. travel expense other. total travel expense. uncatagorized expenses. total expense. net ordinary income. net income. page exhibit exhibit to the franchise disclosure document painting llc exhibit list of current franchisees exhibit franchisees who left system exhibit franchisees not yet open exhibit exhibit exhibit list of current franchisees current franchisees name address city state zip phone royal miller home springrock street work lake circle gadsden alabama kurt southworth south-west street customer bobwhite lane deliveries bentonville arkansas scott rhoades south alma school road chandler arizona debbie carreno brockton street el cajon california becca vigilanese foster drive longmont colorado jay nelson balcarrick court windsor colorado sheila rick carmichael aksarben avenue littelton colorado kristy jensen old kentish road tolland court eric wall kingstown court street augustine floor jose garcia south-west road avenue road miami floor karen willet north-west th terrace pembroke pines floruit omar henandez grand national drive orlando floor ryan warren meadowbrook drive pensacola floor vicente lombardo blue lagoon drive miami floor vicente nuzzolo yarmouth drive wellington floruit eddie mccoy mcbride lane gainesville georgia ozzie guevara wyndham woods trail powder springs georgia rich margaret groark berrywood way cumming georgia brian conrad fairmont avenue naperville illinois greg degregorio south stone avenue louisiana grange illinois robert sterling aster drive frankfort illinois galya stanifer heatherwood drive greenwood indiana marty mcgraw vinita way louisville key nick francois cedar mound lane youngsville louisiana glenn misiph decarolis drive tewksbury massachusetts jason egleston cedarwood drive dewitt michigan sarah brandenburg. melita road sterling michigan erech gallatin wayzata boulevard street louis park minnesota james lord morgan avenue south minneapolis richfield minnesota gabor kika jacques magnolia avenue charlotte north carolina geoff fair summerview lane cary north carolina exhibit james watson westridge drive high point north carolina john belinda wiesehan rea road charlotte north carolina william abbey eversfield lane charlotte north carolina yanling piacenti shadow mist court apex north carolina thomas haydock b manor drive hooksett new hampshire paul bratone lake avenue fair haven new jersey royal daniel boulevard mountain lakes new jersey chris teresa scott sugar ridge loop rio rancho new mexico dain carver martine avenue white plains new york mike rowan faller street oceanside new york chris ring twinbrook drive perrysburg oh frank karen beodray barton road north olmsted ohio james dorff arborcrest court west chester ohio randy ghaster merriweather road toledo ohio robbie austin marie lane cuyahoga falls ohio steven hudspeth fern place glenpool oklahoma bill bath george reynolds drive courtice on line east a steve dixon timeless drive oakville on line line verb jerry daugherty south th street hughesville pennsylvania josh amos north street greenville south carolina paul kim bresnan atlantic palms lane charleston south carolina travis saxer valley view circle valley springs south dakota brent gabele chester stephens road franklin tennessee henry brown brookridge circle cordova tennessee alberto spera hermosa arroyo drive league city texas cindy mcclanahan oakwood manor drive cypress texas clinton arthur kokomo lane bastrop texas courtney canadeo anderson lane austin texas craig sharon stone san jacinto court southlake texas hernan bermudez lillian street houston texas jeremy wood winchester drive cedar park texas joe martinez atlanta street deer park texas michael cope. sharpshire drive waxahachie texas scott allison snowy egret drive katy texas eric johnson lakeview stansbury park utah exhibit derrick hannick glenwood circle fredericksburg virginia justin rowling tanzanite drive harrisonburg virginia rodrigo silva castille road apartment henrico virginia jody hancock diamond street street albans vermont ana esper kestrel way hartland wisconsin james maas stonebridge court milwaukee wisconsin nick maniaci marilyn drive elm grove wisconsin terry wuschenny th street east saskatoon saskatchewan dakota south dakota north z exhibit list of franchisees who left system franchisees who left system from with last known address name address city state zip phone armando delatorre argone street denver colorado bill petroff brandon boulevard brandon floor luis gonzalez pines boulevard pembroke pines floruit pedro salgado kendall drive miami floruit butch zimm south-west th avenue south miami floruit tony tyler wulkow west terney lane geneval illinois jacque barber troup avenue kansas city kansas james allard warner avenue warren michigan chris wise coughlan auburn hills michigan karen monaco fielder road arlington texas miguel serna interstate north schertz texas mike sword montesa drive houston texas charlie rakosky orsinger hill san antonio texas michael kramer emmeline drive herriman utah kevin clark east south sandy utah brendan gerardo ginger lane staffordshire virginia gil likness ramage crescent alberta canada tense p x cheryl bell sunrise circle. calgary canada tense x a this individual owned three franchised outlets. each of these individuals owned two franchised outlets. exhibit exhibit list of franchisees not yet open franchisees not yet open name address city state zip phone sharon helzer. meyers road oakbrook terrace illinois exhibit painting llc franchisee disclosure questionnaire exhibit to the franchise disclosure document exhibit franchisee disclosure questionnaire as you know paintingpainting llc and you are preparing to enter into a franchise agreement for the operation of a franchised business. in this franchisee disclosure questionnaire paintingpainting llc will be referred to as we or us. the purpose of this questionnaire is to determine whether any statements or promises were made to you that we did not authorize and that may be untrue inaccurate or misleading. please review each of the following questions carefully and provide honest and complete responses to each question. please note that in requesting that you complete this questionnaire painting llc is not asking you to makeall representations requiring prospective franchisees to assent to a release estoppels or statements thatwaiver of liability are not intended to nor shall they act as a release estoppel or waiver of any liability incurred under the illinois franchise disclosure act or the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. have you received and personally reviewed the painting llc franchise agreement and each exhibit addendum and schedule attached to it? yes or number do you understand all of the information contained in the franchise agreement and each exhibit and schedule attached to it? yes or no if no what parts of the franchise agreement do you not understand? attach additional pages if necessary. have you received and personally reviewed our franchise disclosure document we provided to you? yes or number do you understand all of the information contained in the franchise disclosure document? yes or no if no what parts of the franchise disclosure document do you not understand? attach additional pages if necessary. exhibit. have you discussed the benefits and risks of operating a painting business with an attorney accountant or other professional advisor and do you understand those risks? yes or number do you understand that the success or failure of your business will depend in large part upon your skills and abilities competition from other businesses interest rates inflation labor and supply costs lease terms and other economic and business factors? yes or number has any employee or other person speaking on our behalf made any statement or promise concerning the revenues profits or operating costs of a painting business that we or our franchisees operate? yes or number has any employee or other person speaking on our behalf made any statement or promise concerning a painting business that is contrary to or different from the information contained in the franchise disclosure document? yes or number has any employee or other person speaking on our behalf made any statement or promise concerning the likelihood of success that you should or might expect to achieve from operating a painting business? yes or number has any employee or other person speaking on our behalf made any statement promise or agreement concerning the advertising marketing training support service or assistance that we will furnish to you that is contrary to or different from the information contained in the franchise disclosure document? yes or number if you have answered yes to any of questions through please provide a full explanation of your answer in the following blank lines. attach additional pages if necessary and refer to them below. if you have answered no to each of such questions please leave the following lines blank. exhibit exhibit. do you understand that in all dealings with you our officers directors employees and agents act only in a representative capacity and not in an individual capacity and such dealings are solely between you and us? yes or no you understand that your answers are important to us and that we will rely on them. by signing this franchisee disclosure questionnaire you are representing that you have responded truthfully to the above questions. name of franchisee applicant question yes number did you receive a copy of our disclosure document and all exhibits and attachments at least a calendar days prior to signing the franchise agreement or if you are a resident of new york or rhode island at the earlier or the first personal meeting or business days before the execution of the franchise or other agreement or payment of any consideration or if you are a resident of michigan at the earlier of business days before the execution of any binding agreement or payment of any consideration?. have you personally reviewed the disclosure document the franchise agreement and each exhibit amendment and or addendum attached to it?. do you understand all of the information contained in the disclosure document the franchise agreement and each exhibit amendment and or addendum attached to it?. have you discussed the benefits and risks of operating a painting business with an attorney accountant or other professional advisor of your choosing and do you understand those risks? exhibit question yes number do you understand that the success or failure of your business will depend in large part upon your skills and abilities competition from other businesses interest rates inflation labor and supply costs lease terms and other economic and business factors?. do you understand that the franchise agreement contains the entire agreement between you and us concerning the franchise meaning that any prior oral or written statements not included in the franchise agreement or our disclosure document will not be binding?. do you understand that that the franchise granted is for the right to operate a franchised business only in the territory described on exhibit to the franchise agreement and that we and our affiliates have the right to issue franchises or operate competing businesses for or at locations as we determine near your territory?. do you understand that you are bound by the non compete covenants both in term and post term listed in section. and that an injunction is an appropriate remedy to protect the interests of the painting system if you violate the covenant ?. do you understand that the economic and cultural changes caused by the covid pandemic could have a negative impact on the market for painting decorating and wall finishing services the painting franchise system and your business?. do you also understand that the economic environment could get worse?. do you understand that in all dealings with you our officers directors employees and agents act only in a representative capacity and not in an individual capacity and such dealings are solely between you and us? if you answered no to any of the questions numbered please explain exhibit question yes number was any oral written or visual claim or representation made to you which contradicted the disclosures in the disclosure document?. was any oral written or visual claim or representation made to you which stated suggested predicted or projected your sales income or profit levels?. did any employee or other person speaking on our behalf make any statement or promise regarding the costs involved in operating a franchise that is not contained in the disclosure document or that is contrary to or different from the information in the disclosure document?. has any employee or other person speaking on our behalf made any statement or promise concerning the likelihood of success that you should or might expect to achieve from operating a painting business?. has any employee or other person speaking on our behalf made any statement promise or agreement concerning the advertising marketing training support service or assistance that we will furnish to you that is contrary to or different from the information contained in the disclosure document? if you answered yes to questions please explain in detail you understand that your answers are important to us and that we will rely on them. by signing this questionnaire you are representing that you have considered each question carefully and responded truthfully to the above questions. if more space is needed for any answer continue on separate sheet and attach. signatures appear on following page exhibit name of person or company who will be the franchisee date signature name and title of person signing painting llc multi state addenda date signature name date exhibit to the painting llc franchise disclosure document state specific addenda addendum to painting llc franchise disclosure document for california franchisees the california franchise relations act business and professions code section through the act contains certain laws governing the relationship between a franchisor and franchisee. certain of these laws conflict with provisions contained in our customary franchise agreement and related documents. set forth below is an overview of certain disclosures contained in the attached franchise disclosure document which are amended by virtue of the act. to the extent the california franchise investment law calendar corporation code or the california franchise relations act calendar bus. professor code applies the terms of this addendum apply. the california franchise investment law requires that copy of all proposed agreements relating to the sale of the franchise be delivered together with the franchise disclosure document. our website at has not been reviewed or approved by the california department of business oversight. any complaints concerning the content of this website may be directed to the california department of business oversight at section of the california corporations code requires us to give you disclosure document in form containing the information that the commissioner may by rule or order require before solicitation of proposed material modification of an existing franchise. item additional disclosure neither we nor any person identified in item is subject to any currently effective order of any national securities association or national securities exchange as defined in the securities exchange act of. a et seq. suspending or expelling such persons from franchise in such association or exchange. the act provides additional rights to you concerning termination and nonrenewal. no franchise may be terminated except for good cause and you must be given a notice of default and a reasonable opportunity to cure the defects except that for certain defects as specified in the statute no opportunity to cure is required by law. the statute also requires that notice of any intention by us not to renew your franchise agreement be given at least days before expiration of the franchise agreement. if any of the provisions of the franchise agreement conflict with the act the offending provisions will be considered invalid. the franchise agreement requires application of the laws of the commonwealth of virginia. this provision may not be enforceable under the act. section of the franchise investment law requires us to give you a disclosure document approved by the commissioner of the corporations before we ask you to consider a material modification of your franchise agreement. http http the franchise agreement contains a covenant not to compete which extends beyond the termination of the franchise. this provision may not be enforceable under california law. the franchise agreement provides for termination upon bankruptcy. this provision may not be enforceable under federal bankruptcy law. you must signitem additional disclosure the highest interest rate allowed by california is annually. item additional disclosures the franchise agreement requires franchisee to execute a general release if you renewof claims upon renewal or transfer yourof the franchise agreement. california corporations code section provides that any condition stipulation or provision purporting to bind any person acquiring any franchise to waive compliance with any provision of that law or any rule or order there under is void. section voids a waiver of your rights under the franchise investment law california corporations code through. business and professions codesection voids a waiver of your rights under the franchise relations act business and professions code sections through. the franchise agreement requires application of the laws of virginia. this provision may not be enforceable under california law. the franchise agreement contains a liquidated damages clause. under california civil code certain liquidated damages clauses are unenforceable. california business and professions code sections through provide rights to the franchisee concerning termination transfer or non renewal of a franchise. if the franchise agreement contains a provision that is inconsistent with the law the law will control. the franchise agreement provides for termination upon bankruptcy. this provision may not be enforceable under federal bankruptcy law. et seq. the franchise agreement contains a covenant not to compete which extends beyond the termination of the franchise. this provision may not be enforceable under california law. our website at has not been reviewed or approved by the california department of business oversight. any complaints concerning the content of this website may be directed to the california department of business oversight atany litigation must be pursued in courts located in the county and state in which we maintain our principal place of business currently albemarle county virginia. each party will bear its own expenses including attorneys fees. prospective franchisees are encouraged to consult private legal counsel to determine the applicability of california and federal laws such as business and professions code section. code of civil procedure section and the federal arbitration act to any provision of a franchise agreement restricting venue to a forum outside the state of california. california business and professions code through addendum to painting llc franchise disclosure document for illinois franchisees to the extent the illinois franchise disclosure act ill. comp. statistical applies the terms of this addendum apply. additional risk factors the franchisor may subcontract painting decorating and wall finishing services within your protected territory to other including to other franchisees with no compensation to you. until the completion of your north dakota year as franchisee you may not provide painting decorating and wall finishing services that exceed per project or in total without franchisor prior approval. for purposes of the franchise opportunity painting decorating and wall finishing services are limited to one two or three owner occupied dwellings. item additional disclosures. the following statements are added to item the illinois franchise disclosure act governs the franchise agreement. section of the illinois franchise disclosure act provides that any provision in a franchise agreement that designates jurisdiction or venue outside the state of illinois is void. however a franchise agreement may provide for arbitration outside of illinois. section of the illinois franchise disclosure act provides that any condition stipulation or provision purporting to bind any person acquiring any franchise to waive compliance with the illinois franchise disclosure act or any other law of illinois is void. your rights to the franchisee concerningupon termination transfer or and non renewal of a franchise. if the franchise agreement contains a provision that is inconsistent with the law the law will control agreement are set forth in section and of the illinois franchise disclosure act. the earnings claims figure does do not reflect the costs of sales operating expenses or other costs or expenses that must be deducted from the gross revenue or gross sales figures to obtain your net income or profit. you should conduct an independent investigation of the costs and expenses you will incur in operating your franchised business. franchisees or former franchisees listed in the offering circular may be one source of this information. addendum to franchise disclosure documentfor indiana franchisees the indiana deceptive franchise practices law indiana code. contains certain laws governing the relationship between a franchisor and franchisee. amendment to painting llc franchise agreement for the state of illinois certain of these laws conflict with the painting llc franchise agreement between franchisee or you and painting llc franchisor dated the franchise agreement shall be amended by the addition of the following language which should be considered an integral part of the franchise agreement the amendment. illinois law modification the illinois franchise disclosure act requires that certain provisions contained in our customary franchise agreement and relatedfranchise documents including the franchise agreement be amended to be consistent with illinois law. therefore to the extent that the franchise agreement contains provisions that are inconsistent with the following the modification set forth below shall be controlling. illinois law governs the agreements between the parties to this franchise. section of the illinois franchise disclosure act provides that any provision in a franchise agreement that designates jurisdiction or venue outside the state of illinois is void. however a franchise agreement may provide for arbitration outside of illinois. section of the illinois franchise disclosure act provides that any condition stipulation or provision purporting to bind any person acquiring any franchise to waive compliance with the illinois franchise disclosure act or any other law of illinois is void. your rights upon termination and non renewal of a franchise agreement are set forth in sections and of the illinois franchise disclosure act. the franchisor may subcontract painting decorating and wall finishing services within your protected territory to other including to other franchisees with no compensation to you. until the completion of your north dakota year as franchisee you may not provide painting decorating and wall finishing services that exceed per project or in total without franchisor prior approval. for purposes of the franchise opportunity painting decorating and wall finishing services are limited to one two or three owner occupied dwellings. see the next page for your signature. franchisee franchisor painting llc by signature name paul flick print name title ceo title if any signature page to amendment to painting llc franchise agreement for the state of illinois addendum to painting llc franchise disclosure document for indiana franchisees the indiana deceptive franchise practices law indiana code. contains certain laws governing the relationship between a franchisor and franchisee. certain of these laws conflict with provisions contained in our customary franchise agreement and related documents. set forth below is an overview of certain disclosures contained in the attached franchise disclosure document which are amended by virtue of the indiana law. the franchise agreement and related documents by and between us and you as an indiana franchisee will be governed by indiana law and not the law of the commonwealth of virginia. you as an indiana franchisee have the right to litigate in indiana and are not restricted to the requirements in the franchise agreement to sue only in albemarle virginia. the covenants of non competition with respect to you as an indiana franchisee will be limited to an area equal to the protected area granted to you and other franchisees. indiana law prohibits a prospective general release of claims subject to the indiana deceptive franchise practices law. the reservation of rights to any specified remedy or limitation of remedies available to you as an indiana franchise contained in sections. iv and. of the franchise agreement is subject to the provisions of the indiana deceptive franchise practices law ic. the sections in the franchise agreement that relate to termination non renewal governing law venue for litigation modification covenants not to compete and any limitations period for bringing claims are only applicable to the extent they are not inconsistent with or prohibited by indiana law. indiana law will control to the extent of any inconsistency or prohibition. amendment to painting llc franchise agreement for the state of indiana the painting llc franchise agreement between franchisee or you and painting llc franchisor dated the franchise agreement shall be amended by the following which should be considered an integral part of the franchise agreement the amendment. indiana law modification in recognition of the requirements of the indiana deceptive franchise practices law indiana code. through. and the indiana franchise disclosure law indiana code. through. the parties to the franchise agreement agree as follows. if any of the provisions of the franchise agreement concerning termination and non renewal governing law venue for litigation or arbitration modification covenants not to compete or any limitations period on the time in which claims may be brought are inconsistent with either the indiana deceptive franchise practices law or the indiana franchise disclosure law then such laws will apply to the extent inconsistent with the terms of the franchise agreement. sections. viii and. iii of the franchise agreement each contain a provision requiring a general release as a condition to renewal or transfer of the franchise. each provision is inapplicable to the extent inconsistent with the indiana deceptive franchise practices law ic. no representation or acknowledgment by the franchisee in the franchise agreement is intended to or shall act as a release assignment novation waiver or estoppel to deprive the franchisee of the rights and protections provided in the indiana franchise disclosure law or to relieve any person of any liability under the indiana deceptive franchise practices law. each of the provisions of this amendment will be effective only to the extent with respect to such provision that the jurisdictional requirements of the indiana franchise disclosure law and the indiana deceptive franchise practices act are met independently without reference to this amendment. except as otherwise provided in this amendment all the other terms covenants and agreements in the franchise agreement shall remain the same and the franchise agreement as amended shall continue in full force and effect. to the extent this amendment is inconsistent with any terms or conditions of the franchise agreement or the attachments to the franchise agreement the terms of this amendment shall govern. signature page follows franchisee franchisor paintingpainting llc by signature by name paul flick print name title ceo title if any signature page to amendment to painting llc franchise agreement for the state of indiana addendum to painting llc franchise disclosure document for maryland franchisees item has been amended. to the extent that the franchise agreement provides that you must sign a general release as a condition of assignment transfer the general release will not apply to any liability under the the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law maryland code bus. register applies the terms of this addendum apply. the provision additional risk factors your spouse must sign a document that makes your spouse liable for all financial obligations under the franchise agreement even though your spouse has no ownership interest in the franchise agreement which provides for. this guarantee will place both your and your spouse marital and personal assets perhaps including your house at risk if your franchise fails. item additional disclosures our termination uponof the franchise agreement because of your bankruptcy of the franchisee may not be enforceable under theapplicable federal bankruptcy law. et seq. section et seq. you may suebring a lawsuit in maryland for claims arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. in addition notwithstanding any provisions in the franchise agreement anyany claims arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law must be brought within three years after the grant of the franchise. based upon the franchisor financial condition the maryland securities commissioner has required a financial assurance. therefore all initial fees and payments owed by franchisees shall be deferred until the franchisor completes its pre opening obligations under the franchise agreement. item has been amended. the general release required as a condition of renewal sale and or assignment transfer will not apply to any liability under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. amendment to painting llc franchise agreement for the state of maryland the painting llc franchise agreement between franchisee or you and painting llc franchisor dated the franchise agreement shall be amended by the addition of the following language which should be considered an integral part of the franchise agreement the amendment. maryland law modification the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law requires that certain provisions contained in franchise documents including the franchise agreement be amended to be consistent with maryland law. therefore to the extent that the franchise agreement contains provisions that are inconsistent with the following the modifications set forth below shall be controlling. while the franchise agreement requires you to disclaim the occurrence and or acknowledge the nonoccurrence of acts which would constitute a violation of franchise laws such representation and acknowledgments are not intended to nor shall they act as a release estoppel or waiver of any liability or claims arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. while the franchise agreement requires litigation to be conducted only in a court in the commonwealth of virginia you may bring a lawsuit in maryland for claims arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. if you are required to sign a general release of claims pursuant to the franchise agreement as a condition of renewal sale and or assignment transfer of your franchise such release will not apply with respect to any liability under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. any claims arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law may be brought within three years after the grant of the franchise. each provision of this amendment will be effective only to the extent with respect to such provision that the jurisdictional requirements of the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law are met independently without reference to this amendment. based upon the franchisor financial condition the maryland securities commissioner has required a financial assurance. therefore all initial fees and payments owed by franchisees shall be deferred until the franchisor completes its pre opening obligations under the franchise agreement. except as otherwise provided in this amendment all of the other terms covenants and agreements in the franchise agreement shall remain the same and the franchise agreement as amended shall continue in full force and effect. to the extent this amendment is inconsistent with any terms or conditions of the franchise agreement or any attachments thereto the terms of this amendment shall govern and control. signature page follows franchisee franchisor painting llc signature by name print name title title if any signature page to amendment to painting franchise agreement for the state of maryland illinois addendum to franchise disclosure document for illinois franchisees the illinois franchise disclosure act contains certain laws governing the relationship between a franchisor and franchisee. certain of these laws conflict with provisions contained in our customary franchise agreement and related documents. set forth below is an overview of certain disclosures contained in the attached franchise disclosure document which are amended by virtue of illinois law. illinois law governs the franchise agreements. in conformance with section of the illinois franchise disclosure act any provision in a franchise agreement that designates jurisdiction and venue in a forum outside of the state of illinois is void. however a franchise agreement may provide for arbitration to take place outside of illinois. franchisees rights upon termination and non renewal are set forth in sections and of the illinois franchise disclosure act. in conformance with section of the illinois franchise disclosure act any condition stipulation or provision purporting to bind any person acquiring any franchise to waive compliance with the illinois franchise disclosure act or any other law of illinois is void. franchisee franchisor painting llc signature by name print name title title if any amendment to paintingfranchise agreement for the state of illinois the painting llc franchise agreement between franchisee or you and painting llc franchisor dated the franchise agreement shall be amended by the addition of the following language which should be considered an integral part of the franchise agreement the amendment. illinois law modification the illinois franchise disclosure act requires that certain provisions contained in franchise documents including the franchise agreement be amended to be consistent with illinois law. therefore to the extent that the franchise agreement contains provisions that are inconsistent with the following the modification set forth below shall be controlling. the franchise agreement provides that the franchise agreement constitutes the entire agreement between you and franchisor with respect to the subject matter thereof and supersedes any prior understanding or agreement written or oral respecting the subject matter thereof. however such provision does not to the extent giving rise to any liability or claim under the illinois franchise disclosure act exclude any representations or promises made by franchisor to you pursuant to the franchise disclosure document and addendums and exhibits thereto. the franchise agreement and related documents by and between us and you will be governed by the laws of the state of illinois and not the laws of the commonwealth of virginia. while the franchise agreement and ancillary documents designate jurisdiction or venue in the commonwealth of virginia you may bring a lawsuit in illinois for claims arising under the illinois franchise disclosure act or any other cause of action which is otherwise enforceable in the state of illinois. the conditions pursuant to which your franchise can be terminated and any rights upon non renewal may be subject to applicable provisions of the laws of the state of illinois. each provision of this amendment will be effective only to the extent with respect to such provision that the jurisdictional requirements of the illinois franchise disclosure act are met independently without reference to this amendment. except as otherwise provided in this amendment all of the other terms covenants and agreements in the franchise agreement shall remain the same and the franchise agreement as amended shall continue in full force and effect. to the extent this amendment is inconsistent with any terms or conditions of the franchise agreement or any attachments thereto the terms of this amendment shall govern and control. signature page follows franchisee franchisor paintingpainting llc by signature by name paul flick print name title ceo title if any signature page to amendment to painting llc franchise agreement for the state of illinoismaryland addendum to painting llc franchise disclosure document for washington franchisees the state of washington has a statute rcw. which may supersede the franchise agreement in your relationship with us including the areas of termination and renewal of your franchise. there may also be court decisions which may supersede the franchise agreement in your relationship with us including the areas of termination and renewal of your franchise. in any arbitration involving a franchise purchased in washington the arbitration site shall be either in the state of washington or in a place mutually agreed upon at the time of the arbitration or as determined by the arbitrator. in the event of a conflict of laws the provisions of the washington franchise investment protection act chapter. rcw shall prevail. release or waiver of rights signed by you shall not include rights under the washington franchise investment protection act except when executed pursuant to a negotiated settlement after the agreement is in effect and where the parties are represented by independent counsel. provisions such as those which unreasonably restrict or limit the statute of limitations period for claims under the act rights or remedies under the act such as a right to a jury trial may not be enforceable. transfer fees are collectable to the extent that they reflect our reasonable estimated or actual costs in effecting a transfer. the undersigned does hereby acknowledge receipt of this addendum. dated this day of. painting llc franchisee by signature its print name title if any amendment to painting franchise agreement for the state of washington the painting llc franchise agreement between franchisee or you and painting llc franchisor dated the franchise agreement shall be amended by the addition of the following language which should be considered an integral part of the franchise agreement the amendment. washington law modification in recognition of the requirements of the washington franchise investment protection act wash. rev. code. through. the parties to the franchise agreement agree as follows. the state of washington has a statute rcw. which may supersede the franchise agreement in franchisee relationship with franchisor including the areas of termination and renewal of the franchise agreement. there may also be court decisions which may supersede the franchise agreement in franchisee relationship with the franchisor including the areas of termination and renewal of the franchise agreement. in any arbitration involving a franchise purchased in washington the arbitration site shall be either in the state of washington or in a place mutually agreed upon at the time of the arbitration or as determined by the arbitrator. release or waiver of rights executed by franchisee will not include rights under the washington franchise investment protection act except when executed under a negotiated settlement after the agreement is in effect and where franchisee is represented by independent counsel. provisions such as those which unreasonably restrict or limit the statute of limitations period for claims under the washington franchise investment protection act or rights or remedies under the act such as a right to jury trial may not be enforceable. in the event of a conflict of laws the provisions of the washington franchise investment protection act chapter. rcw shall prevail. transfer fees are collectible to the extent they reflect franchisor reasonable estimated or actual costs in effecting the transfer. each provision of this amendment will be effective only to the extent with respect to such provision that the jurisdictional requirements of the washington franchise investment protection act are met independently without reference to this amendment. except as otherwise provided in this amendment all the other terms covenants and agreements in the franchise agreement shall remain the same and the franchise agreement as amended shall continue in full force and effect. to the extent this amendment is inconsistent with any terms or conditions of the franchise agreement or the attachments to the franchise agreement the terms of this amendment shall govern. signature page follows franchisee franchisor painting llc signature by name print name title title if any signature page to amendment to painting franchise agreement for the state of washington addendum to franchise disclosure document for minnesota franchisees the following applies to prospective franchisees governed by minnesota law and supplement the items to which they refer and supersede anything inconsistent with them in the text of this disclosure document. item. per minnesota statutes section circa subdivision minnesota considers it unfair for us not to protect your right to use the trademarks listed in item. we will protect your rights to use those trademarks and any other trademarks service marks trade names logo types or other commercial symbols we may license you to use or indemnify you from any loss cost or expenses arising out of any claim suit or demand regarding the use of those marks. item. with respect to franchises governed by minnesota law we will comply with minnesota statutes section circa subdivisions and which require except in certain specified cases that a franchisee be given days notice of termination with days to cure and days notice for non renewal of the franchise agreement and that consent to the transfer of the franchise will not be unreasonably withheld. to the extent the minnesota franchise act minn. statistical circa circa applies the terms of this addendum apply. state cover page and item. minnesota statutes section additional disclosures minn. statistical second circa and minnesotaminn. rule. j prohibit us from requiring litigation or arbitration to be conducted outside of minnesota requiring waiver of a jury trial or requiring you the franchisee to consent to liquidated damages termination penalties or judgment notes. in addition nothing in the disclosure document or any agreement can shall abrogate or reduce any of your rights as provided for in minnesota statutes chapterminn. statistical second county or your rights to any procedure forum or remedies provided for by the laws of the jurisdiction. franchisee cannot consent to the franchisor obtaining injunctive relief. the franchisor may seek injunctive relief. court will determine if a bond is required. item additional disclosure nsf checks are governed by minn. statistical which puts a cap of on service charges. item additional disclosures the minnesota department of commerce requires that a franchisor indemnify minnesota franchisees against liability to third parties resulting from claims by third parties that the franchisee use of the franchisor trademark infringes upon the trademark rights of the third party. the franchisor does not indemnify against the consequences of a franchisee use of a franchisor trademark except in accordance with the requirements of the franchise agreement and as the condition to an indemnification the franchisee must provide notice to the franchisor of any such claim immediately and tender the defense of the claim to the franchisor. if the franchisor accepts tender of defense the franchisor has the right to manage the defense of the claim including the right to compromise settle or otherwise resolve the claim or to determine whether to appeal a final determination of the claim. item additional disclosures any condition stipulation or provision including any choice of law provision purporting to bind any person who at the time of acquiring a franchise is a resident of the state of minnesota or in the case of a partnership or corporation organized or incorporated under the laws of the state of minnesota or purporting to bind a person acquiring any franchise to be operated in the state of minnesota to waive compliance or which has the effect of waiving compliance with any provision of the minnesota franchise law is void. we will comply with minn. statistical second circa subds. and which requires except in certain specified cases that a franchisee be given days notice of termination with days to cure days notice for nonrenewal of the franchise agreement and that consent to the transfer of the franchise will not be unreasonably withheld. minnesota rule. d prohibits united states of america usa or franchisor from requiring youa franchisee to assent to a general release assignment novation or waiver that would relieve any person from liability under minnesota statutes circa through circa the franchise agreement contains provisions requiring a general release as a condition of renewal or transfer of a franchise. such release will exclude claims arising under minnesota statutes circa through circa in addition no representation or acknowledgment by you in the franchise agreement is intended to or shall act as a release assignment novation or waiver that would relieve any person from liability underimposed by minnesota statutes statute circa through circa the limitations of claims section must comply with minn. statistical second circa subd. you cannot consent to us obtaining injunctive relief. we may seek injunctive relief. minnesota rule. j also a court will determine if a bond is required. any limitations of claims sections must comply with minnesota statutes section. subdivision. amendment to painting llc franchise agreement for the state of minnesota the painting llc franchise agreement between franchisee or you and painting llc franchisor dated the franchise agreement shall be amended by the addition of the following language which should be considered an integral part of the franchise agreement the amendment. minnesota law modification. this amendment is made a part of the franchise agreement. section. of the franchise agreement is hereby amended by adding the following with respect to franchises governed by minnesota law the franchisor will comply with minn. statistical second circa subd. which requires except in certain specified cases that a franchisee be given one hundred eighty days notice for non renewal of the franchise agreement. section of the franchise agreement is hereby amended by adding the following with respect to franchises governed by minnesota law the franchisor will comply with minn. statistical second circa subd. which requires except in certain specified cases that a franchisee be given ninety days notice of termination with sixty days to cure. sections. ix and. iii of the franchise agreement each contain a provision requiring a general release as a condition of renewal or transfer of the franchise. such release will exclude claims arising under minnesota statutes circa through circa section. of the franchise agreement is hereby amended by adding the following the minnesota department of commerce requires that the franchisor indemnify minnesota franchisees against any losses costs or expenses resulting from claims by third parties that the franchisee use of the franchisor trademark infringes trademark rights of the third party. franchisor does not indemnify against the consequences of franchisee use of the franchisor trademark except in accordance with the requirements of the franchise and as a condition to indemnification franchisee must provide notice to franchisor of any such claim within ten days and tender the defense of the claim to franchisor. if franchisor accepts the tender of defense franchisor has the right to manage the defense of the claim including the right to compromise settle or otherwise resolve the claim and to determine whether to appeal a final determination of the claim. section of the franchise agreement is hereby amended by adding the following with respect to franchises governed by minnesota law the franchisor will comply with minn. statistical second circa subd. which requires except in certain specified cases that a franchisee be given ninety days notice of termination with sixty days to cure. sections. and. of the franchise agreement are hereby amended by adding the following under minn. statistical second circa and minnesota rule. j nothing in this paragraph or in this agreement shall in any way abrogate or reduce any rights of the franchisee as provided for in minnesota statutes chapter county including but not limited to the right to submit matters to the jurisdiction of the courts of minnesota or franchisee rights to any procedure forum or remedies provided for by the laws of the jurisdiction. sections. viii and. iii of the franchise agreement each contain a provision requiring a general release as a condition of renewal or transfer of the franchise. such release will exclude claims arising under minnesota statutes circa through circa no representation or acknowledgment by the franchisee in the franchise agreement is intended to or shall act as a release assignment novation or waiver that would relieve any person from liability under minnesota statutes circa through circa minnesota statutes section circa subd. requires that consent to the transfer of the franchised business will not be unreasonably withheld. the sections in the franchise agreement that relate to transfer are applicable to the extent they are not inconsistent with minnesota law. in the event of any inconsistency minnesota law will control. minnesota rule. j prohibits franchisor from requiring franchisee to waive its rights to a jury trial or to consent to liquidated damages. section. of the franchise agreement that relates to waiver of jury trial and section. of the franchise agreement as it relates to consent to liquidated damages shall not apply to franchises governed by minnesota law. franchisor acknowledges that minnesota rule. j provides that franchisee cannot consent to franchisor obtaining injunctive relief but that franchisor may seek injunctive relief and that a court will determine if a bond is required. franchisor acknowledges that no action may be commenced under minnesota statutes section circa subd. more than years after the cause of action accrues. each provision of this amendment will be effective only to the extent with respect to such provision that the jurisdictional requirements of the minnesota franchises law minnesota statutes chapter county sections circa through circa are met independently without reference to this amendment. except as otherwise provided in this amendment all the other terms covenants and agreements in the franchise agreement shall remain the same and the franchise agreement as amended shall continue in full force and effect. to the extent this amendment is inconsistent with any terms or conditions of the franchise agreement or the attachments to the franchise agreement the terms of this amendment shall govern. signature page follows. except as otherwise provided in this amendment all the other terms covenants and agreements in the franchise agreement shall remain the same and the franchise agreement as amended shall continue in full force and effect. to the extent this amendment is inconsistent with any terms or conditions of the franchise agreement or the attachments to the franchise agreement the terms of this amendment shall govern. signature page follows franchisee franchisor paintingpainting llc by signature by name paul flick print name title ceo title if any signature page to amendment to painting llc franchise agreement for the state of minnesota new york addendum to painting llc franchise disclosure document for new y rkyork franchisees. the following information is added to the cover page of the franchise disclosure document information comparing franchisors is available. call the state administrators listed in exhibit or your public library for sources of information. registration of this franchise by new york state does not mean that new york state recommends it or has verified the information in this franchise disclosure document. if you learn that anything in the franchise disclosure document is untrue contact the federal trade commission and new york state department of law bureau of investor protection and securities broadway road bureau liberty street street floor new york new york.the franchisor may if it chooses negotiate with you about items covered in the franchise disclosure document. however the franchisor cannot use the negotiating process to prevail upon prospective franchisee to accept terms which are less favorable than those set forth in this franchise disclosure document. the following is added at the end of item except as provided above with regard to the franchisor its predecessor a person identified in item or an affiliate offering franchises under the franchisor principal trademark. no such party has an administrative criminal or civil action pending against that person alleging a felony a violation of a franchise antitrust or securities law fraud embezzlement fraudulent conversion misappropriation of property unfair or deceptive practices or comparable civil or misdemeanor allegations. no such party has pending actions other than routine litigation incidental to the business which are significant in the context of the number of franchisees and the size nature or financial condition of the franchise system or its business operations. no such party has been convicted of a felony or pleaded nolo contendere to a felony charge or within the year period immediately preceding the application for registration has been convicted of or pleaded nolo contendere to a misdemeanor charge or has been the subject of a civil action alleging violation of a franchise antifraud or securities law fraud embezzlement fraudulent conversion or misappropriation of property or unfair or deceptive practices or comparable allegations. no such party is subject to a currently effective injunctive or restrictive order or decree relating to the franchise or under a federal state or canadian franchise securities antitrust trade regulation or trade practice law resulting from a concluded or pending action or proceeding brought by a public agency or is subject to any currently effective order of any national securities association or national securities exchange as defined in the securities and exchange act of suspending or expelling such person from membership in such association new york or exchange or is subject to a currently effective injunctive or restrictive order relating to any other business activity as a result of an action brought by a public agency or department including without limitation actions affecting a license as a real estate broker or sales agent. the following is added to the end of item new york neither except as provided above neither the franchisor its affiliate its predecessor officers or general partner during the year period immediately before the date of the offering circular a filed as debtor or had filed against it a petition to start an action under the. bankruptcy code obtained a discharge of its debts under the bankruptcy code or was a principal officer of a company or a general partner in a partnership that either filed as a debtor or had filed against it a petition to start an action under the. bankruptcy code or that obtained a discharge of its debts under the. bankruptcy code during or within year after that officer or general partner of the franchisor held this position in the company or partnership. the following is added to the end of item the initial franchise fee constitutes part of our general operating funds and will be used as such in our discretion. the following is added to the end of the summary sections of item titled requirements for franchisee to renew or extend and item entitled conditions for franchisor approval of transfer however to the extent required by applicable law all rights you enjoy and any causes of action arising in your favor from the provisions of article of the general business law of the state of new york and the regulations issued thereunder shall remain in force it being the intent of this proviso that the non waiver provisions of general business law sections. and. be satisfied. the following language replaces the summary section of item titled termination by franchisee you may terminate the agreement on any grounds available by law. the following is added to the end of the summary section of item titled assignment of contract by franchisor however no assignment will be made except to an assignee who in good faith and judgment of the franchisor is willing and financially able to assume the franchisor obligations under the franchise agreement. the following is added to the end of the summary sections of item titled choice of forum and item titled choice of law the foregoing choice of law should not be considered a waiver of any right conferred upon the franchisor or upon the franchisee by article of the general business law of the state of new york. new york amendment to painting llc franchise agreement for the state of new york the painting llc franchise agreement between franchisee or you and painting llc franchisor dated the franchise agreement shall be amended by the addition of the following language which should be considered an integral part of the franchise agreement the amendment. new york law modification in recognition of the requirements of the new york general business law article the parties to the franchise agreement agree as follows. section. assignment by franchisor of the franchise agreement shall be supplemented with the following paragraph no assignment shall be made except to an assignee who in the good faith judgment of franchisor is willing and possesses the economic resources to fulfill franchisor obligations under such franchise agreement. section. indemnification of the franchise agreement shall be amended by the addition of the following notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this section. franchisee shall not be required to indemnify for any claims arising out of a breach of the franchise agreement by franchisor or other civil wrongs of the franchisor. section severability paragraph one of the franchise agreement shall be deleted in its entirety and shall have no force or effect and the following shall be substituted in lieu of the first paragraph of section. severability. except as expressly provided to the contrary in this agreement each section part term and or provision of this agreement shall be considered severable and if for any reason determined to be invalid and contrary to or in conflict with any existing or future law or regulation by a court or agency having valid jurisdiction such shall not impair the operation of provisions of this agreement as may remain otherwise intelligible and the latter shall continue to be given full force and effect and bind the parties to this agreement and said invalid sections parts terms and or provisions shall be deemed not to be a part of this agreement. section. choice of law of the franchise agreement shall be deleted in its entirety and shall have no force or effect and the following shall be substituted in lieu of section. of the franchise agreement. of the franchise agreement. choice of law. except to the extent this agreement or any particular dispute is governed by the. trademark act of or other federal law this agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the commonwealth of virginia without reference to its new york conflict of laws principles excluding any law regulating the sale of franchises or governing the relationship between a franchisor and franchisee unless the jurisdictional requirements of such laws are met independently without reference to this section. the foregoing choice of law should not be considered a waiver of any right conferred upon franchisee by the general business law of new york state article. references to any law refer also to any successor laws and to any published regulations for such law as in effect at the relevant time. references to any law refer also to any successor laws and to any published regulations for such law as in effect at the relevant time. references to a governmental agency also refer to any regulatory body that succeeds the function of such agency. sections. viiiix and. iii of the franchise agreement each contain a provision requiring a general release as a condition of renewal or transfer of the franchise. such release will exclude claims arising under the general business law of new york state article sections through and the regulations issued thereunder. no representation or acknowledgment by the franchisee in the franchise agreement is intended to or shall act as a release assignment novation waiver or estoppel which would relieve a person from any duty or liability imposed by article sections through of the general business law of the state of new york and the regulations issued thereunder. each provision of this amendment will be effective only to the extent with respect to such provision that the jurisdictional requirements of the new york general business law article are met independently without reference to this amendment. except as otherwise provided in this amendment all the other terms covenants and agreements in the franchise agreement shall remain the same and the franchise agreement as amended shall continue in full force and effect. to the extent this amendment is inconsistent with any terms or conditions of the franchise agreement or the attachments to the franchise agreement the terms of this amendment shall govern. signature page follows new york except as otherwise provided in this amendment all the other terms covenants and agreements in the franchise agreement shall remain the same and the franchise agreement as amended shall continue in full force and effect. to the extent this amendment is inconsistent with any terms or conditions of the franchise agreement or the attachments to the franchise agreement the terms of this amendment shall govern. signature page follows franchisee franchisor paintingpainting llc new york by signature new york by name paul flick print name title ceo title if any signature page to amendment to painting llc franchise agreement for the state of new york south dakota addendum to painting llc franchise disclosure document for south dakota franchisees based upon the franchisor financial condition the south dakota securities regulation office has required a financial assurance. therefore all initial fees and payments owed by franchisees shall be deferred until the franchisor completes its pre opening obligations under the franchise agreement. south dakota addendum to franchise disclosure document for virginia franchisees. in recognition of the restrictions contained in section. of the virginia retail franchising act the franchise disclosure document for painting llc for use in the commonwealth of virginia shall be amended as follows additional disclosure. the following statements are added to item. and item. section. of the virginia retail franchising act makes it unlawful for a franchisor to cancel a franchise agreement without reasonable cause. if any ground for default or termination stated in the franchise agreement does not constitute reasonable cause as that term may be defined in the virginia retail franchising act or the laws of virginia that provision may not be enforceable. south dakota amendment to painting llc franchise agreement for the state of washington the painting llc franchise agreement between franchisee or you and painting llc franchisor dated the franchise agreement shall be amended by the addition of the following language which should be considered an integral part of the franchise agreement the amendment. washington law modification in recognition of the requirements of the washington franchise investment protection act wash. rev. code. through. the parties to the franchise agreement agree as follows. in the event of a conflict of laws the provisions of the washington franchise investment protection act chapter. rcw shall prevail. rcw. may supersede the franchise agreement in your relationship with us including the areas of termination and renewal of your franchise. there may also be court decisions which may supersede the franchise agreement in your relationship with us including the areas of termination and renewal of your franchise. in any arbitration or mediation involving a franchise purchased in washington the arbitration or mediation site shall be either in the state of washington or in a place mutually agreed upon at the time of the arbitration or mediation or as determined by the arbitrator or mediator at the time of arbitration or mediation. in addition if litigation is not precluded by the franchise agreement a franchisee may bring an action or proceeding arising out of or in connection with the sale of franchises or a violation of the washington franchise investment protection act in washington. release or waiver of rights executed by a franchisee will not include rights under the washington franchise investment protection act or any rule or order thereunder except when executed under a negotiated settlement after the agreement is in effect and where the parties are represented by independent counsel. provisions such as those which unreasonably restrict or limit the statute of limitations period for claims under the act or rights or remedies under the act such as a right to jury trial may not be enforceable. transfer fees are collectible to the extent they reflect franchisor reasonable estimated or actual costs in effecting the transfer. pursuant to rcw. a noncompetition covenant is void and unenforceable against an employee including an employee of a franchisee unless the employee earnings from the party seeking enforcement when annualized exceed per year an amount that will be adjusted annually for inflation. in addition a noncompetition covenant is void and unenforceable against an independent contractor of a franchisee under rcw. unless the independent contractor earnings from the party seeking enforcement when south dakota annualized exceed per year an amount that will be adjusted annually for inflation. as a result any provisions contained in the franchise agreement or elsewhere that conflict with these limitations are void and unenforceable in washington. each provision of this amendment will be effective only to the extent with respect to such provision that the jurisdictional requirements of the washington franchise investment protection act are met independently without reference to this amendment. except as otherwise provided in this amendment all the other terms covenants and agreements in the franchise agreement shall remain the same and the franchise agreement as amended shall continue in full force and effect. to the extent this amendment is inconsistent with any terms or conditions of the franchise agreement or the attachments to the franchise agreement the terms of this amendment shall govern. franchisee franchisor painting llc by signature name paul flick print name title ceo title if any signature page to amendment to painting llc franchise agreement for the state of washington state effective dates exhibit page of state effective dates the following states require that the franchise disclosure document be registered or filed with the state or be exempt from registration california hawaii illinois indiana maryland michigan minnesota new york north dakota rhode island south dakota virginia washington and wisconsin. this document is effective and may be used in the following states where the document is filed registered or exempt from registration as of the effective date stated below state effective date california pending illinois pending indiana pending maryland pending michigan pending minnesota pending new york pending rhode island pending south dakota pending virginia pending washington pending wisconsin pending other states may require registration filing or exemption of a franchise under other laws such as those that regulate the offer and sale of business opportunities or seller assisted marketing plans. receipt receipt this disclosure document summarizes certain provisions of the franchise agreement and other information in plain language. read this disclosure document and all agreements carefully. if painting llc offers you a franchise it must provide this disclosure document to you days before you sign a binding agreement with or make a payment to the franchisor or an affiliate in connection with the proposed franchise sale. new york and rhode island require that we give you this disclosure document at the earlier of the first personal meeting or business days before the execution of the franchise or other agreement or the payment of any consideration that relates to the franchise relationship. michigan requires that we give you this disclosure document at least business days before the execution of any binding franchise or other agreement or the payment of any consideration whichever occurs first.if painting llc does not deliver this disclosure document on time or if it contains a false or misleading statement or a material omission a violation of federal and state law may have occurred and should be reported to the federal trade commission washington. and the state administrator listed in exhibit. the franchisor is painting llc located at peter jefferson parkway suite charlottesville virginia. its telephone number island issuance date april amended october see exhibit for our agents authorized to receive service of process. have received a disclosure document dated april amended october see state registration page for state registration effective dates that included the following exhibits list of state administrators list of agents for service of process franchise agreement and franchise agreement exhibits operations manual table of contents nondisclosure agreement for confidential operations manual financial statements list of current and former franchisees current franchises former franchisees franchisee disclosure questionnaire and multi state addenda. paul flick acts as our franchise seller and his address is peter jefferson parkway suite charlottesville virginia and his telephone number island date of receipt prospective franchisee receipt receipt this disclosure document summarizes certain provisions of the franchise agreement and other information in plain language. read this disclosure document and all agreements carefully. if painting llc offers you a franchise it must provide this disclosure document to you days before you sign a binding agreement with or make a payment to the franchisor or an affiliate in connection with the proposed franchise sale. new york and rhode island requirerequires that we give you this disclosure document at the earlier of the first personal meeting or business days before the execution of the franchise or other agreement or the payment of any consideration that relates to the franchise relationship. iowa requires that we give you this disclosure document at the earlier of the first personal meeting or days before the execution of the franchise or other agreement or the payment of any consideration that relates to the franchise relationship. michigan requires that we give you this disclosure document at least business days before the execution of any binding franchise or other agreement or the payment of any consideration whichever occurs first. if painting llc does not deliver this disclosure document on time or if it contains a false or misleading statement or a material omission a violation of federal and state law may have occurred and should be reported to the federal trade commission washington. and the state administrator listed in exhibit. the franchisor is painting llc located at peter jefferson parkway suite charlottesville virginia. its telephone number island issuance date june painting llc authorizes the respective state agents identified in exhibit to receive service of process on its behalf in the particular states. have received a disclosure document dated june that included the following exhibits list of state administrators list of agents for service of process franchise agreement and franchise agreement exhibits operations manual table of contents financial statements list of current franchisees list of franchisees who have left the system franchise compliance questionnaire and multi state addenda. paul flick acts as our franchise seller and his address is peter jefferson parkway suite charlottesville virginia and his telephone number island date signature printed name date signature printed name keep this copy for your records. receipt receipt this disclosure document summarizes certain provisions of the franchise agreement and other information in plain language. read this disclosure document and all agreements carefully. if painting llc offers you a franchise it must provide this disclosure document to you days before you sign a binding agreement with or make a payment to the franchisor or an affiliate in connection with the proposed franchise sale. new york requires that we give you this disclosure document at the earlier of the first personal meeting or business days before the execution of the franchise or other agreement or the payment of any consideration that relates to the franchise relationship. iowa requires that we give you this disclosure document at the earlier of the first personal meeting or days before the execution of the franchise or other agreement or the payment of any consideration that relates to the franchise relationship. michigan requires that we give you this disclosure document at least business days before the execution of any binding franchise or other agreement or the payment of any consideration whichever occurs first. if painting llc does not deliver this disclosure document on time or if it contains a false or misleading statement or a material omission a violation of federal and state law may have occurred and should be reported to the federal trade commission washington. and the state administrator listed in exhibit. the franchisor is painting llc located at peter jefferson parkway suite charlottesville virginia. its telephone number island issuance date april amended october june see painting llc authorizes the respective state agents identified in exhibit for our agents authorized to receive service of process on its behalf in the particular states. have received a disclosure document dated april amended october see state registration page for state registration effective dates june that included the following exhibits list of state administrators list of agents for service of process franchise agreement and franchise agreement exhibits operations manual table of contents nondisclosure agreement for confidential operations manual financial statements gf list of current and former franchisees current franchises former list of franchisees who have left the system franchisee disclosurefranchise compliance questionnaire and multi state addenda. paul flick acts as our franchise seller and his address is peter jefferson parkway suite charlottesville virginia and his telephone number island date signature printed name receipt date signature printed name sign this copy and return to us. paul flick acts as our franchise seller and his address is peter jefferson parkway suite charlottesville virginia and his telephone number island date of receipt prospective franchisee