dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub franchise disclosure document dance vision franchise international incorporated nevada corporation west sahara avenue suite las vegas nevada wayne dancevision.com we are dance vision franchise international incorporated a nevada corporation. we offer sub franchises to qualified individuals to own and operate and sub franchise franchises in a network of dance studios that feature certified dance instructors and local and regional dance competitions and to acquire related business consulting and advisory services as well as various dance related products educational courses advancement processes and certification programs. the initial sub franchisor fee ranges from a minimum of to. the total estimated initial investment necessary to begin operation of a dance vision sub franchise ranges from to. this includes the initial sub franchise fee that must be paid to us. this disclosure document summarizes certain provisions of your franchise agreement and other information in plain english. read this disclosure document and all accompanying agreements carefully. you must receive this disclosure document at least calendar days before you sign a binding agreement with or make any payment to the franchisor or an affiliate in connection with the proposed franchise sale. note however that no governmental agency has verified the information contained in this document. you may wish to receive your disclosure document in another format that is more convenient for you. to discuss the availability of disclosures in different formats contact wayne england at west sahara avenue suite las vegas nevada his direct line telephone number island his mail address is wayne dancevision.com. the terms of your contract will govern your franchise relationship. don rely on the disclosure document alone to understand your contract. read all of your contract carefully. show your contract and this disclosure document to an advisor like a lawyer or an accountant. buying a franchise is a complex investment. the information in this disclosure document can help you make up your mind. more information on franchising such as consumer guide to buying a franchise which can help you understand how to use this disclosure document is available from the federal trade commission. you can contact the ftc at ftc help or by writing to the ftc at pennsylvania avenue north west washington. you can also visit the ftc home page at for additional information. call your state agency or visit your public library for other sources of information on franchising. there may also be laws on franchising in your state. ask your state agencies about them. issuance date june dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub how to use this franchise disclosure document here are some questions you may be asking about buying a franchise and tips on how to find more information question where to find information how much can earn? item may give you information about outlet sales costs profits or losses. you should also try to obtain this information from others like current and former franchisees. you can find their names and contact information in item. how much will need to invest? items and list fees you will be paying to the franchisor or at the franchisor direction. item lists the initial investment to open. item describes the suppliers you must use. does the franchisor have the financial ability to provide support to my business? item exhibit includes financial statements. review these statements carefully. is the franchise system stable growing or shrinking? item summarizes the recent history of the number of company owned and franchised outlets. will my business be the only dance vision business in my area? item and the territory provisions in the franchise agreement describe whether the franchisor and other franchisees can compete with you. does the franchisor have a troubled legal history? items and tell you whether the franchisor or its management have been involved in material litigation or bankruptcy proceedings. what it like to be a dance vision franchisee? item lists current and former franchisees. you can contact them to ask about their experiences. what else should know? these questions are only a few things you should look for. review all items and all exhibits in this disclosure document to better understand this franchise opportunity. see the table of contents. dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub what you need to know about franchising generally continuing responsibility to pay fees. you may have to pay royalties and other fees even if you are losing money. business model can change. the franchise agreement may allow the franchisor to change its manuals and business model without your consent. these changes may require you to make additional investments in your franchise business or may harm your franchise business. supplier restrictions. you may have to buy or lease items from the franchisor or a limited group of suppliers the franchisor designates. these items may be more expensive than similar items you could buy on your own. operating restrictions. the franchise agreement may prohibit you from operating a similar business during the term of the franchise. there are usually other restrictions. some examples may include controlling your location your access to customers what you sell how you market and your hours of operation. competition from franchisor. even if the franchise agreement grants you a territory the franchisor may have the right to compete with you in your territory. renewal. your franchise agreement may not permit you to renew. even if it does you may have to sign a new agreement with different terms and conditions in order to continue to operate your franchise business. when your franchise ends. the franchise agreement may prohibit you from operating a similar business after your franchise ends even if you still have obligations to your landlord or other creditors. some states require registration your state may have a franchise law or other law that requires franchisors to register before offering or selling franchises in the state. registration does not mean that the state recommends the franchise or has verified the information in this document. to find out if your state has a registration requirement or to contact your state use the agency information in exhibit. your state also may have laws that require special disclosures or amendments be made to your franchise agreement. if so you should check the state specific addenda. see the table of contents for the location of the state specific addenda. dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub special risks to consider about this franchise certain states require that the following risk be highlighted. out of state dispute resolution. the franchise agreement requires you to resolve disputes with the franchisor by mediation arbitration and or litigation only in nevada. out of state mediation arbitration or litigation may force you to accept a less favorable settlement for disputes. it may also cost more to mediate arbitrate or litigate with the franchisor in nevada than in your own state. spousal liability. in community property states arizona california idaho louisiana nevada new mexico texas washington and wisconsin franchisees must sign a guaranty making you and your spouse individually liable for your financial obligations under the agreement if you are married. the guaranty will place your and your spouse marital and personal assets perhaps even your house at risk if your franchise fails. certain states may require other risks to be highlighted. check the state specific addenda if any to see whether your state requires other risks to be highlighted. dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub table of contents item. the franchisor and any parents predecessors and affiliates. business experience. litigation. bankruptcy. initial fees. other fees. estimated initial investment. restrictions on sources of products and services. franchisee obligations. financing. franchisor assistance advertising computer systems and training. territory. trademarks. patents copyrights and proprietary information. obligation to participate in the actual operation of the franchisee business. restrictions on what the franchisee may sell. renewal termination transfer and dispute resolution. public figures. financial performance representations. outlets and franchisee information. financial statements. contracts. receipts exhibits. audited financial statements. list of state franchise administrators and registered agents. professional guide table of contents. standard sub franchisor agreement and exhibits and addenda. conditional assignment of phone number. abandonment relinquishment and termination of assumed name addendum. state law addendum and warranties and disclaimers by prospective franchisees. confidentiality non disclosure and non compete agreement. electronic debit authorization form. state effective dates. acknowledgments of receipt of disclosure document by prospective franchisee dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub. the franchisor and any parents predecessors and affiliates we are dance vision franchise international incorporated we do business under the names dance vision and dvida. we do not intend to do business under any other names. dance vision franchise international incorporated is called us or we in this franchise disclosure document you means the purchaser of a franchise from us and includes owners or partners of a corporation partnership or other legal entity that purchases a franchise. we are a nevada corporation that was formed on december. our principal place of business is west sahara avenue suite las vegas nevada. our telephone number island list of state regulatory authorities and our agents for service of process are listed in exhibit. we began to offer franchises in may. from to dance support network incorporated a since disbanded company organized by. england incorporated offered but never sold any franchise memberships in the dvida program. our affiliate companies are. england incorporated and dance vision international dance association incorporated and tyftd llc. england incorporated was incorporated under the laws of nevada on may. it has offered and sold dance education course materials related video programs dance instruction curricula supplies and equipment since its inception. it is a major producer of dance instructional videos with a library of over titles and has operated under the names dance vision and dvida and in previous years danz support network. it also operates or is affiliated with national and regional dance competitions including the emerald ball. england incorporated focuses its operations exclusively on the procurement production manufacture and supply of dance related products. on february we. england incorporated and dance vision international dance association incorporated assigned all dance vision trademarks trade names and label rights to tyftd llc which was organized under the laws of nevada on february as the holding company for all dance vision trademarks service marks and related administrative registrations. we have a license with tyftd llc to franchise the marks to you. all marketing rights related to dance vision products have been assigned to a sister corporation dance vision international dance association dvida which was incorporated under the laws of nevada on december. dvida incorporated our sister corporation is the marketing and customer service sales center for dance vision products and services. it is the authorized supplier for dance vision merchandise events certifications and social memberships. it developed a unique advancement and certification system known as the student dvida medal system by dance vision which consists of examination and certification procedures specially designed for studio operators and instructors to use in teaching evaluating and certifying students. the student dvida medal system provides students with the opportunity to medal at various levels of dance competency as they receive instruction and advance through the system. the instruction is based upon professionally designed videos and manuals produced and made available to the public by dvida incorporated dvida incorporated is the sponsor of pro dvida an international organization for professional instructors devoted to preserve promote and enhance world wide standards of dance. it is also the sponsor of club dvida an international social dance club being organized by dvida among other things to encourage the general public to participate in dance instruction and to learn about the history and culture of dance. dvida acquired the rights to sponsor all dance vision events including competitions tours and camps from. england incorporated dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub we have significant contractual relations with dvida including an agreement which acquired the student dvida medal system from dvida with continuing developmental support from dvida a non exclusive license to market all dance vision products access to a network of independent dvida examiners qualified to conduct examination and certification of students participating in the student dvida medal system discounted memberships in pro dvida for dance vision members who are professional instructors the exclusive future rights to participate in promotional and referral campaigns by club dvida to encourage its members to participate in dance instruction provided exclusively by members of dance vision and the opportunity to participate in dance vision events tours and camps that will further the interest and participation of students of dance vision members in dance instruction. wayne and donna england husband and wife are the founders and sole shareholders of us and of our affiliates. the addresses and telephone numbers for our affiliates is the same as ours. we have no other predecessors or affiliates. neither we nor. england incorporated nor dvida incorporated has operated license businesses of the type being offered or conducted business in any other line of business. prior subsidiary company of. england incorporated dance support network incorporated offered franchises for memberships in a network of independently owned dance studios and dance instructors from to. we offer sub franchises to qualified individuals and entities to own and operate and sub franchise franchises in a network of dance studios that feature certified dance instructors and local and regional dance competitions and to acquire related business consulting and advisory services as well as various dance related products educational courses advancement processes and certification programs. sub franchisor enters into individual studio franchise agreements with franchisees within a territory and supports the studio franchises located in that territory. the programs competitions services and products provided by our sub franchisors are collectively known to the public as dance vision and dvida programs services and products. collectively this is called the method of operation. our sub franchisors operate and offer and enter into sub franchises for single locations and multiple locations pursuant to a separate individual studio franchise disclosure document and studio franchise agreement prepared by the sub franchisor pursuant to the professional guide. this is done under the dance vision and dvida names logos and service marks. pursuant to this franchise disclosure document you may purchase the right to establish and to sub license dance vision franchises within a selected area to use our service marks trademarks trade names programs and systems. as a sub franchisor you enter into individual studio franchise agreements with and support individual studio franchises within a limited territory. you will pay a fee for the right to own this area so that you can own develop sell and service dance vision individual studio franchised studios and related dance competitions and in return you pay to us an initial fee and royalty fee for the individual unit studios you own in the territory and part of the initial franchise fees and a percentage of the royalties paid to you by the individual studio franchise owners operating in your designated area. as a sub franchisor you have the authority to operate and to grant franchises using our designated and approved franchise disclosure document and to sign our designated and approved form of franchise agreements with your franchisees. if you purchase a sub franchisor franchise we require that you own and operate at least one dance vision individual studio franchised dance vision studio. franchise development compliance. the sale of franchises is governed by rules enacted by the federal trade commission ftc. et seq. the ftc rule. you must comply with the disclosure requirements mandated by the ftc rule. further in california hawaii illinois indiana maryland minnesota new york north dakota rhode island south dakota virginia washington and wisconsin and certain other states and provinces you are required to register the disclosure document before the offer or sale of any franchise. the disclosure document must be registered with the various authorities before the offer or sale of any franchise in that particular state. when you submit your registration as a sub franchisor you must submit your own individual studio franchise disclosure document including your own audited financial statements. you must maintain all required registrations current. dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub you should consult with your attorney concerning those and other local laws and ordinances that may affect the operation of your sub franchisor franchise. we are not involved in any other business activities. we intend to produce and sell innovative advertising and sales promotion materials. we attempt to negotiate group discount rates for the benefit of our franchisees for wholesale supplies merchandise and services. we have not operated any businesses of the type being offered under this disclosure document. we retain the right to own or operate dance vision studios and franchises. managing member wayne england biography listed in item below or entities he controls may own and operate dance vision studios. we have created the franchise program for dance vision interior and exterior trade dress standards specifications and procedures for quality efficient service and uniformity of products and services procedures and computer software for inventory and management control training advertising promotional programs and ongoing assistance. we do not currently own or operate any studios of the type we are franchising. the general market for dance vision programs products and services is well developed. your customers will include individuals and groups of dance students aged two years to adult. except as explained below we are not aware of any legal regulations that relate specifically to our industry beyond those that apply to all education or training businesses in general regulations may be adopted in the future at the federal state or province level that could affect your business financial condition and results of operations. certain states may have additional related laws and regulations that you should investigate and become familiar with. these include restrictions on the number of lessons you may sell to a dance student at one time. these laws and regulations may impact upon your license business activities. you are responsible for ensuring at your expense that you fully comply with the federal state and local laws that apply to your business operations. you and other dance vision system members compete with national regional and local dance education providers private dance instructors and studios as well as public and private schools and institutions of higher education. the primary source of your competition will come from private dance instructors and franchised dance studios some of whom will be home based. the dance education industry is highly competitive. you will sell primarily to individuals but may also sell to commercial accounts. industry specific laws there are no legal regulations that relate specifically to our industry apart from those that apply to all businesses generally. covid. apart from full compliance with fluctuating and varied state and local rules related to covid shelter in place business and essential services opening and operations restrictions social distancing disinfection surface cleaning hand washing hand sanitation and masking requirements we have not made and do not intend to make any changes to our business model to adapt to governmental or consumer demands either during or post covid. this disclosure document is a summary of some material provisions of the franchise agreement. however the franchise agreement itself expresses and governs the actual legal relationship between us and you. we dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub are willing to negotiate the terms of these agreements with our shareholders and management employees existing franchise owners multiple franchise purchasers and their immediate family members. business experience the following are the occupational histories for at least the last five years of our officers directors and persons having management responsibility in connection with our franchise operations. they are our franchise sales agents as well president and executive director wayne england mister england has been our president and ceo since our formation. mister england has been president and executive director of our affiliate. england incorporated since its incorporation in on may and our affiliate dance vision international dance association incorporated dvida since its incorporation on december. litigation no litigation is required to be disclosed in this disclosure document. bankruptcy no person corporation or other legal entity previously identified in items and of this disclosure document has been involved as a debtor in proceedings under any domestic or foreign bankruptcy laws required to be disclosed in this item. initial fees initial fee for sub franchisor franchises the initial non refundable sub franchise fee is based upon population with a minimum of the sub dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub franchisor fee. it is calculated as follows is multiplied by every persons of population in the sub franchise territory plus one of the multiples below based on medium income if it applies is multiple by every persons of the population in the sub franchise territory when the average medium income is over under is multiple by every persons of the population in the sub franchise territory when the average medium income is over under is multiple by every persons of the population in the sub franchise territory when the average medium income is over under is multiple by every persons of the population in the sub franchise territory when the average medium income is over for example if the population of the selected area is then you would divide that amount by and multiply the result of by giving you and if the medium income is over and under then living you. adding for the initial fee. this fee is paid when you sign your sub franchisor agreement. the sub franchisor fee is non refundable. if you meet our net worth and credit criteria we may finance a portion of the sub franchisor fee. see item. we have not sold any sub franchises within the past fiscal year. general fee provisions we may offer sub franchises at a reduced rate to prospective sub franchisors who in our opinion possess the knowledge and experience to conduct business with minimal assistance from us or who are purchasing multiple sub franchises. we may offer franchises outside of your sub franchise territory at a reduced rate to prospective franchisees who in our opinion possess the knowledge and experience to conduct business with minimal assistance from us or who are purchasing multiple franchises. occasionally we may permit existing franchisees to obtain additional franchise agreements with reduced or no initial fees as an award to a limited number of existing franchisees who have excelled in the dance vision system. for example at a franchise convention we may make such an award to the franchise studio with the highest volume highest comparative sales increase or similar achievements. we may offer franchises without any initial franchise fees to our shareholders and corporate officers and to other individuals identified in item above. initial franchise fee is not refundable in whole or in part under any circumstances other than those listed above. dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub. other fees our recurring and isolated fees under the franchise agreement at their current rates include type of fee amount due date remarks you will pay initial fees and ongoing franchise fees to us of initial franchise fees to be paid by prospective franchisees with whom you sign individual studio franchise agreements and of ongoing weekly royalty fees collected from all franchisees you service in the sub franchise territory of ongoing weekly national advertising fees collected from all franchisees you service in the sub franchise territory of ongoing weekly continuing franchise fee from all studios you operate in the sub franchise territory of your gross revenues payable to you each week based upon payments received or gross revenues produced during the preceding week. for initial fees days after you receive payment consistent with the terms of the relevant franchise agreement. see note in the future we may adjust the date of payment or require the payment to be made monthly. you will pay transfer fees to us of the amount of the transfer fee paid by the individual studio franchisee in your sub franchise territory. within days after transfer is completed see note insurance policies premium amounts you must maintain general liability and products liability insurance to protect you and us cost will not exceed amounts reasonably required cost of enforcement or defense all costs including attorneys fees upon settlement or conclusion of claim or action prevailing party may recover costs indemnification all costs including attorneys fees upon settlement or conclusion of claim or action each party will indemnify the other dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub type of fee amount due date remarks renewal fee of the initial franchise fees you paid to originally purchase your franchise upon renewal payable to us. franchise compliance and state registration if required by your state to annually you are required to fully comply with the federal trade commission franchise rule and you might be required to maintain annual registration with legal fees accounting fees and the state fees sub franchisor advertising monthly you must provide proof of placement and we must pre approve. transfer fee at the time the transferee signs the sub franchisor agreement payable to us. late charges per day while amounts owed remain unpaid you will not be compelled to pay late charges at a rate greater than the maximum allowed by applicable law. interest charges prime plus bank america main branch in las vegas nevada while amounts owed remain unpaid you will not be compelled to pay interest on delinquent amounts at a rate greater than the maximum allowed by applicable law. dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub type of fee amount due date remarks fines for non compliance with sub franchise agreement from to per occurrence as outlined in the professional guide as incurred you will not be compelled to pay fines at a rate greater than the maximum allowed by applicable law. costs and attorneys fees will vary under circumstances as incurred payable upon your failure to comply with the sub franchise agreement income taxes you must reimburse us for all taxes charged to us arising as a result of our licensing of intellectual property to you and any assessment on the royalty fees advertising contributions and any other income we receive from you. payable with royalty fees. only imposed if state collects these taxes or assessments from us. any fees paid to us are non refundable unless otherwise noted. amounts paid to any third parties may be refundable depending upon the contracts between them and you. notes. sharing of initial franchise fees. if you present an approved prospective franchisee to us and you then enter into an individual studio franchise agreement with that prospect you will pay to us percent of the amount to be paid by that individual studio franchisee as the initial franchise fee. you will pay us within days of the time you receive payments consistent with the terms of the relevant individual studio franchise agreement. you will also pay to us of the applicable individual unit initial franchise fee for each individual studio franchise you own or operate within your sub franchise territory. sharing of ongoing payments. you will pay to us of the royalty fees you receive from each individual studio franchisee in your sub franchise territory and of the applicable royalty fees for each franchise location you operate in the sub franchise territory. you will make these payments in the manner and times outlined in our professional guides. unless otherwise noted in our professional guides you will make these payments to you by the th day of each month based upon payments you have received and gross revenues you have earned during the preceding month. in the future we may adjust the date of payment or require the payment to be made weekly rather than monthly. sharing of transfer fees. if any individual studio franchisee in the sub franchise territory pays a transfer fee you will pay to us within days after transfer is completed percent of the amount of the transfer fee paid. general fee sharing provisions. the shared amounts described in the above table and notes will dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub be paid pro rata as received. these payments will be made once the relevant fee payments are unrestricted by bank clearing or collection requirements or any franchise escrow or impound restrictions imposed by state franchise regulatory authority. the franchise agreement forms we authorize for you to use may require return some or all of the franchise fees to an individual studio franchisee under certain circumstances. therefore no portion of a payment will be fully earned by us until the fees have been fully earned by you. to the extent that there is a contractual obligation to return some or all of a fee to an individual studio franchisee your payments will be reduced and returned in the same ratio as the portion of the fee returned to the individual studio franchisee bears to the fee retained. if some or all of a fee is returned to an individual studio franchisee written notice must be given of the reasons for the return. sub franchisor advertising. you must spend a minimum of each month subject to annual adjustment for cost of living increases for advertising in business opportunity or franchise specific publications periodicals direct mail online media or other marketing programs as approved or required by us. automatic payment processes we may require that payments may be required to be made by automatic account withdrawal or other automatic processes we reasonably specify in the professional guide such as check cash certified check money order credit or debit card automatic pre authorized payment plan electronic funds transfer or the internet. if we attempt a draw or other process that is returned unsatisfied for any reason we may charge you a fee for each unsatisfied attempt. we reserve the right to require you to process some or all applications payments and payment plans submitted by your students together with the related automatic account withdrawal automatic payment credit and debit card payment automatic pre authorized payment plan electronic funds transfer and other forms of direct or internet payment through us or through service providers and using processes we designate and outline in the professional guide. we may take weekly royalty fee advertising fee product purchase and other payments you owe to us out of the automatic payments made by your students and remit to you the balance. the companies we designate to process enrollment payments and related payment arrangements may include companies that are affiliated with us or in which we or our owners otherwise have ownership or control. if we elect the designated companies may charge you not more than for the service and will allocate and distribute payments received to you while delivering to us all related royalty advertising and other fees as outlined in the franchise agreement and pursuant to the processes we outline in the professional guide. audits. you must periodically submit to us your sales reports quarterly and annual financial statements and tax returns. we may audit your books business records sales reports financial statements and tax returns at any time. the audits will be conducted at our expense unless you understate by more than percent the gross revenue for any reported period or periods. your failure to report gross revenue for any period will be deemed a willful understatement by more than percent. in the event of a willful understatement you must reimburse us for audit costs including the charges of any independent accountant and the travel expenses room board and compensation of our employees incurred in connection with the audit. collection costs. you will cover all collection costs including reasonable attorney fees if we are required to retain an attorney or collection agency to collect delinquent payments you owe to us. notes business telephone. you must maintain a business phone and directory listing. dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub reports and fees. weekly you will deliver an itemized report of your business activities for the preceding week. the report will be in the form we designate. royalty and advertising fees due based upon the gross revenue for the preceding week will be paid based upon the report. we may require you to prove that you have paid the required local advertising expenditures. revenue means all receipts generated by the franchise from any source including sales based upon the suggested retail prices expressed in the professional guide without regard to discounts rentals exchanges repairs services labor service charges service contracts et cetera and excludes refunds and sales taxes. credit transactions will be included in revenue as of the date of the transaction without deduction for uncollected credit accounts. the proceeds from any business interruption insurance eminent domain recovery or trade you receive will be included in revenue. gross weekly revenue means the total revenue for any calendar week. there is a penalty if you submit your royalty fee advertising fee or revenue report after the due date. the late fee is up to a day for each day the royalty fee or advertising fee is late and up to a day for each day the royalty statement is late. you must spend a minimum of of your gross revenue on local advertising each month. this may include online media web sites seo yellow page and white page directories direct mail marketing or other local printing automatic payment processes we may require that payments may be required to be made by automatic account withdrawal or other automatic processes we reasonably specify in the professional guide such as check cash certified check money order credit or debit card automatic pre authorized payment plan electronic funds transfer or the internet. if we attempt a draw or other process that is returned unsatisfied for any reason we may charge you a fee for each unsatisfied attempt. we reserve the right to require you to process some or all applications payments and payment plans submitted by your students together with the related automatic account withdrawal automatic payment credit and debit card payment automatic pre authorized payment plan electronic funds transfer and other forms of direct or internet payment through us or through service providers and using processes we designate and outline in the professional guide. we may take weekly royalty fee advertising fee product purchase and other payments you owe to us out of the automatic payments made by your students and remit to you the balance. the companies we designate to process enrollment payments and related payment arrangements may include companies that are affiliated with us or in which we or our owners otherwise have ownership or control. if we elect the designated companies may charge you not more than for the service and will allocate and distribute payments received to you while delivering to us all related royalty advertising and other fees as outlined in the franchise agreement and pursuant to the processes we outline in the professional guide. audits. you must periodically submit to us your sales reports quarterly and annual financial statements and tax returns. we may audit your books business records sales reports financial statements and tax returns at any time. the audits will be conducted at our expense unless you understate by more than percent the gross revenue for any reported period or periods. your failure to report gross revenue for any period will be deemed a willful understatement by more than percent. in the event of a willful understatement you must reimburse us for audit costs including the charges of any independent accountant and the travel expenses room board and compensation of our employees incurred in connection with the audit. collection costs. you will cover all collection costs including reasonable attorney fees if we are required to retain an attorney or collection agency to collect delinquent payments you owe to us. as outlined in item below dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub. you must purchase your ongoing requirements for copyrighted dance vision manuals videos teaching materials advancement processes and certification programs from us or. england incorporated or dvida incorporated we will deliver a current price list to you upon request. we and our affiliates derive significant revenue from the sale of these items to you. all dance vision certificates and awards are available for purchase by you only for a cost separate and apart from the initial and ongoing franchise fees. dvida incorporated will make available its examiners to certify your students and teachers at a separate cost. the costs associated with these examinations are your responsibility and may include travel and lodging expenses of the examiners. at our discretion we will invite you and your students to participate in dance vision events such as trophy balls teacher training programs and dance vision conferences. the cost to participate in these events is the sole responsibility of each participant and is not included in the initial or ongoing franchise fees. you must use approved dance vision videos and manuals in connection with the student dvida medal system. while dance vision videos and manuals are sold to the public as a member of dance vision you will receive discounts on the purchase of these materials. you may use the service marks including the dance vision and dvida logos to acknowledge membership in the dance vision system but only in relation to materials and programs we provide. as outlined in item below we may make consulting services available to you from independent contractors who will provide on site assistance in running a dance business. these consultants will be made available from approved listings we publish. however the consulting agreement payment of the consultants independently established fees and costs and the arrangement of schedules are your sole responsibility to negotiate with the independent contracting consultants. we neither warrant nor guarantee the services or outcome of any consulting service agreements you enter into with these consultants. estimated initial investment the following table outlines the estimated initial investment to establish a dance vision sub franchisor franchise category of investment amount method of payment when due to whom paid initial fee lump sum upon signing sub franchisor agreement and as outlined in agreement section. if not paid in full at signing. us computer equipment and software as incurred as incurred third parties. dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub category of investment amount method of payment when due to whom paid franchise compliance to or more per year as incurred as incurred third parties. costs incurred as required by the federal trade commission and certain state franchise regulatory authorities. see note. training to as incurred as incurred transportation lines hotel restaurants additional funds months as incurred before or within approximately one year of opening various third parties total notes. initial sub franchisor fee. the initial fee ranges are described in item. this table assumes a maximum sub franchise population of residents. working capital. you will need to provide marketing and administrative services and incur significant operational and office costs before significant revenue is derived by you. miscellaneous. you will have significant costs for legal expense marketing materials insurance advertising placement and related costs. you must obtain liability and products liability insurance reasonably required by us to protect you and us against your activities. insurance. upon commencement of your operations and during the term of the sub franchisor agreement you will obtain and keep in force by advance payment of premium appropriate general liability insurance as described in your sub franchisor agreement. this insurance will be written by a financially responsible insurance company satisfactory to us in accordance with our standards and specifications in the professional guide. additional funds. you should have an adequate cash reserve before beginning operations to help meet the ordinary expenses of selling and servicing franchises for approximately three to months including employees salaries if any. additional funds will be required to finance operations until a positive cash flow is produced. we have relied on our experience since our inception and ongoing reports and communications from our franchisees in preparing these estimates. cost of opening individual unit studios. this total does not include the cost of opening any individual studio franchise that you elect to own and operate. you are required to own and operate and sign an individual studio franchise agreement for at least one dance vision studio. dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub. training. there is no separate charge for the training itself but you must pay for the travel and living expenses of the persons attending initial training for sub franchisors. the actual cost may vary from the estimate due to distances methods of transportation and personal preferences. franchise compliance. the amount you must pay for franchise compliance varies depending on the location of your territory. you will pay less if your territory is located in states that do not regulate franchise activities. this amount includes fdd preparation costs filing fees attorneys and accountant fees. refunds. it is assumed that you will not be entitled to a refund for any of the above described payments except as indicated above. any fees paid to us are not refundable except as outlined in item and item of this disclosure document. fees paid to any third party may be refundable depending upon the contracts if any between the third party and you. the specific requirements for operation of your dance vision sub franchise will be outlined in the professional guide. restrictions on sources of products services we will lend to you a copy of our professional guide for your use during the term of your franchise. we may amend the professional guide including changes that may affect minimum requirements for maintaining your franchise. you will strictly follow the requirements of the professional guide as we amend it. you will implement immediately all changes at your cost unless we otherwise specify. we reasonably may designate minimum standards for franchise curricula instructional materials teaching processes and designate guidelines as specified in the professional guide. the professional guide contains instructions on how to implement dance education courses and defined curricula confidential information methods instructional procedures dance teaching techniques uniform standards manuals guidelines advancement and testing systems merchandise dance materials standards operating guidelines service guidelines marketing and certification programs service and promotional techniques program specifications sales guidelines public relations guidelines music and video lists and other guidelines and standards that we may prescribe for the marketing and operation of your dance vision franchise. you will follow the professional guide and maintain standards of instruction franchisee and student satisfaction cleanliness and merchandising service that we prescribe in order to maintain your franchise. you must purchase all copyrighted dance vision manuals videos teaching materials advancement processes and certification programs from us or. england incorporated or dvida incorporated we will deliver a current price list to you upon request before you sign the franchise agreement. we derive significant revenue from the sale of these items to you. you may purchase non dance vision signs materials equipment furnishings and supplies from any source. all dance vision products programs and services must be purchased from suppliers we approve. we may be designated an approved supplier for and accordingly may derive revenue from the sale of some inventory equipment and supplies. these may include dance education materials and merchandise computer software copyrighted material and business forms. in the future we hope to negotiate purchase arrangements with some suppliers including price terms for the benefit of our franchisees. we may receive wholesale price discounts promotional considerations and dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub financial and operational incentives from these suppliers based upon the volume of purchases from these suppliers. as a dance vision franchisee you will receive a discount on dance vision and other vendor products. however all promotions and discounts are at our discretion and are not guaranteed. we will derive income by providing goods and additional services to you or from consideration paid by suppliers we recommend or require you to purchase from. as of april neither we nor. england incorporated or dvida incorporated have earned any revenue from goods and services purchased from us or our approved sources by our franchisees. we estimate that purchases from us will be to percent of the total purchases you make to establish your franchise. we estimate that purchases from us or. england incorporated or dvida incorporated will be to percent of the total purchases you make to utilize your franchise. we estimate that purchases from suppliers we approve will be to percent of the total purchases you make to establish your franchise. we estimate that purchases from suppliers we approve will be to percent of the total purchases you make to utilize your franchise. we may condition the granting of material benefits for example renewal or granting additional franchise rights or benefits to our franchisees based on their use of designated or approved sources. all dance vision certificates and awards are available for purchase by franchisees only for a cost separate and apart from the initial franchise fee. these awards may only be presented if the student dvida medal system examination guidelines are satisfied. dvida incorporated will make available its examiners to certify your students and teachers at a separate cost. the costs associated with these examinations are the responsibility of the franchisee and may include travel and lodging expenses of the examiners. at our discretion we will invite you and your students to participate in dance vision events such as trophy balls teacher training programs and dance vision conferences. the cost to participate in these events is the sole responsibility of each participant and is not included in the initial franchise fee. as of the date of this disclosure document neither we. england incorporated or dvida incorporated nor any person associated with us is a designated or approved source or supplier of anything other than copyrighted dance vision dvida or dance vision manuals videos curricula certification programs and related materials and teaching materials. you must use approved dance vision videos and manuals in connection with the student dvida medal system. while dance vision videos and manuals are sold to the public as a franchisee of dance vision you will receive discounts on the purchase of these materials. there are no other obligations for you to purchase or lease goods or services following our specifications or from suppliers approved by us except as outlined in the professional guide. specifications and standards for approved goods and services are included in the professional guide. franchise in the dance vision system entitles you to membership in a dance industry association that is in its early stages of development that will include dance instructors and dance studios. the initial franchise fee entitles you to access many benefits specifically designed for dance instructors and studios as you need them on a pay as you go basis i comprehensive dance manuals instructional videos dance charts dance certification system awards and certificates national events business consultation and workshops et cetera costs for these products and services are in addition to the initial franchise fee and are quoted in cost price sheets we publish which may change from time to time at our sole discretion. they are contained in the professional guide described in item below. the right to sell dance vision merchandise is a non exclusive right. we have contracted with dvida incorporated for the exclusive future rights to participate in promotional and referral campaigns by club dvida an international social dance club being organized and sponsored by dvida incorporated among other things to encourage the general public to participate in dance instruction provided by franchisees of dance vision. you will have the right but not the obligation to participate in these programs. we will notify you of the creation and implementation of these programs when they are made available. however these programs are in the developmental stage and dance vision has contracted for these exclusive future rights with dvida incorporated on a conditional when and if basis. we can give you no guarantees or assurances when and if these programs will ever be made available to our franchisees. dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub you must purchase all of the dance vision instructional materials and teaching aids you use in your operations from us or suppliers we have approved. this purchase requirement begins on the date the franchise agreement becomes effective. some suppliers may grant to us a credit and other promotional considerations for materials you purchase from them. there are no required quotas as to quantity of purchases you must make from us or from approved vendors. all specifications that we require of you and lists of approved suppliers will be included in the professional guide. we will use our best judgment to set and modify specifications in order to maintain the integrity and quality of the dance vision system. with advance written notice you may request our approval to obtain products supplies or materials from sources that we have not previously approved. we may require you to give us sufficient information photographs drawings samples and other data to allow us to determine whether the items from these other sources meet our specifications and standards as established from time to time. these specifications and standards will relate to quality taste texture composition absorbency strength finish and appearance and the suppliers capacity and facility to supply your needs in the quantities at the times and with the reliability necessary for efficient operation. we may require that samples from any supplier be delivered to a designated independent testing laboratory for testing prior to approval and use. we may require that you pay for the actual cost of the tests. we will license any supplier that can meet or exceed our quality control and confidential formula requirements and standards for a reasonable license fee to produce and deliver products to you but to no other person. our confidential manufacturing requirements equipment designs systems and formulas will be disclosed to potential suppliers only after we have received reasonable evidence that the proposed supplier is trustworthy and reputable has the capacity to consistently adhere to our standards requirements and testing procedures will maintain the confidentiality of the designs systems and formulas and will adequately supply your reasonable needs. we may require a confidentiality and non disclosure agreement signed by the proposed supplier prior to release of any confidential information. we will not unreasonably withhold approval of a supplier you propose. we will notify you in writing of the approval or disapproval of any supplier you propose. from time to time we or our agents may inspect any proposed or approved manufacturer supplier or distributor facilities and products to assure proper production processing packaging storing and transportation. permission for inspection will be a condition of our continued approval of any manufacturer supplier or distributor. should we determine from any inspection that a manufacturer supplier or distributor fails to meet our specifications and standards we will give written notice describing this failure to you and to the manufacturer supplier or distributor together with a notice that unless the failure or deficiency is corrected within thirty days the manufacturer supplier or distributor will no longer be approved. except as explained above we have no required specifications designated suppliers or approved suppliers for goods services or real estate for your business. except as explained above we will not derive revenue from your purchases or leases. there currently is no formal purchasing or distribution cooperative for the dance vision system. we reserve the right to create and augment the effectiveness of cooperatives for the purchase of materials and the provision of advertising for the benefit of the dance vision system. in the future we may receive rebates price adjustments or discounts on products or services sold to you by recommended or approved suppliers. we plan to add them to the advertising fund use them for programs that benefit all franchisees such as conventions and training programs or return them at reasonable times to all dance vision franchisees pro rata based upon the volume of related business. in fiscal year we did not receive any such payments. unless you have received our prior written approval you may not sell or dispense any products or services or activities other than those specifically recognized and approved by us as part of our franchise system and as specified for dance vision operations. you may not offer distilled spirits beer or wine for sell or consumption. you may not install or use any vending machines juke boxes games or musical devices in your franchise without our prior written approval. dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub we recommend and require to the extent available that each of our sub franchisors and each of their studio franchisees use our approved insurance agency laura kaehler client executive marsh mclennan agency llc golden hills drive minneapolis minnesota direct fax main laura.kaehler marshmma.com twitter.com mmauppermidwest insurance costs will vary widely according to numerous factors including size and location of the business premises and its computers equipment and fixtures. whether a sub franchise a colorado branded studio or an individual studio franchisee upon commencement of and during the term of the franchise agreement we require each of franchisee in the dance vision franchise system to obtain and keep in force by advance payment of premium appropriate insurance. this insurance will be written by an insurance company satisfactory to us in accordance with our standards and specifications in the professional guide. the insurance will include insurance. upon commencement of franchise operations and during the term of this agreement you will obtain and keep in force by advance payment of premium appropriate fire and extended coverage vandalism malicious mischief general liability products liability insurance. this insurance will be in an amount sufficient to replace the studio cover business activities on any premises where franchise activities and dance instruction are provided and cover your personal property upon loss or damage. this insurance will be written by an insurance company satisfactory to us in accordance with our standards and specifications in the professional guide. the insurance will include at a minimum the following. comprehensive general liability insurance including products liability completed operations property damage contractual liability independent contractors liability owned and non owned automobile coverage abuse molestation advertising injury fire damage medical expenses and personal injury coverage with a combined single limit of at least including umbrella coverage with a general aggregate amount of no less than. workers compensation and employer liability insurance and other insurance required by statute or rule of the jurisdiction in which the franchise is located and operated. business interruption and lost profit insurance. employer practice liability insurance. comprehensive crime and blanket employee dishonesty insurance in an amount of not less than. all risk property insurance including theft and flood coverage when applicable written at replacement cost value covering the studio and its building improvements furniture fixtures equipment and inventory. coverage will be written in a value which will cover not less than eighty percent of the replacement cost of the building and one hundred percent of the replacement cost of the contents of the building. cyber security insurance the insurance will insure us you and our respective subsidiaries owners officers directors partners members employees servants and agents against any loss liability products liability personal injury death or property damage that may accrue due to your operation of the franchise. your policies of insurance other than for casualty to the franchise premises and for employer liability will contain a separate endorsement naming us as an additional named insured. the insurance will not be limited in any way because of any insurance we maintain. the insurance will not be subject to cancellation except upon days written notice to us certificates of your insurance policies will be kept on deposit with us. maintenance of the required insurance will not diminish your liability to us under the indemnities contained in this agreement. mailto laura.kaehler marshmma.com http http twitter.com mmauppermidwest dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub all insurance policies you obtain will contain a blanket waiver of the insurer rights of subrogation in respect of or against us and dance vision franchise international incorporated and our officers agents employees and representatives and will not contain any insured vs. insured exclusion clause but will contain a severability clause providing that each policy will be treated as though a separate insurance policy had been issued to each named insured. we may require you to increase the minimum limits of and types of coverage to keep pace with regular business practice and prudent insurance custom. if you fail to comply with any of the requirements of this subsection we may but are not obligated to purchase insurance at your expense to protect our interests. this insurance may but need not also protect your interest. the coverage we obtain might not pay any claim you make or any claim made against you. you may later cancel the insurance we obtain by providing evidence that you have obtained proper coverage elsewhere. you are responsible for the cost of any insurance purchased by us pursuant to this paragraph. this coverage may be considerably more expensive than insurance you can obtain on your own and might not satisfy your needs. you will pay us upon demand the premium cost of this insurance with a late payment charge on the unpaid balance at the rate established in this agreement. you will promptly report all claims or potential claims against you the business or us in writing when you become aware of them. you will give immediate written notice to us of any claims or potential claims you make to your insurers. we may at our sole discretion upon not less than days prior written notice to you secure a policy of insurance which will provide defined insurance coverage to all or any part of our franchise system. this policy may replace or supplement the insurance coverage you are required to maintain. you will pay the relevant insurance premium to us or the designated insurance provider as we direction nothing contained in this agreement will be construed as a representation or warranty by us that the insurance coverage we specify will insure you against all insurable risks or amounts of loss which may or can arise out of or in connection with the operation of your franchise business. it is your sole responsibility to ensure that adequate insurance coverage is obtained for your business. your procurement and maintenance of the insurance specified above will not relieve you of any liability to us under any indemnity requirement of this agreement. the insurance will insure us the franchisee and our respective subsidiaries owners officers directors partners members employees servants and agents against any loss liability products liability personal injury death or property damage that may accrue due to operation of the franchise. the insurance will not be limited in any way because of any insurance we maintain. in addition to these insurance requirements you and each franchisee must indemnify and hold us harmless from all fines suits proceedings claims demands actions losses attorney fees and damages arising out of or connected with the franchise and the business activities acts or omissions of you and your franchisees employees and agents. there are no other obligations for you to purchase or lease according to specifications or from approved suppliers. except as explained above we have no required specifications designated suppliers or approved suppliers for goods services or real estate related to your franchise business. except as explained above we will not derive revenue from your purchases or leases. franchisee obligations these tables list your principal obligations under the franchise and other agreements. they will help you find more detailed information about your obligations in these agreements and in other items of this disclosure document. dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub obligation section in sub franchisor agreement disclosure document item a site selection and acquisition lease none. pre opening purchases leases section items and. site development and other pre opening requirements sections items and. initial and on going training sections items and. opening sections item. fees sections items and. compliance with standards and policies operating manual sections item. trademarks and proprietary information sections items and i restrictions on products services offered sections items and. warranty and customer service requirements sections must meet state and federal requirements as mandated for franchise sales and service agents. territorial development and sales quotas sections exhibits and item. on going product service purchases sections items and. maintenance appearance and remodeling requirements none items and. insurance section items and. advertising sections and items and. indemnification section item. operator participation management staffing sections item. records reports sections items and. inspections audits sections items and dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub obligation section in sub franchisor agreement disclosure document item. transfer section items and. renewal section exhibit item. post termination obligations sections item. non competition covenants section item. dispute resolution section item. franchise compliance sections. financing we do not provide any other direct or indirect financing for anything nor do we assist in providing financing for you. we do not guarantee any notes or financial obligations you may incur in setting up and operating your franchise. franchisor assistance advertising computers systems and training except as listed below we are not required to provide you with any assistance. pre opening obligations before you open your franchise we will designate your sub franchise territory. section. and exhibit sub franchisor agreement approve or disapprove a site for your franchise location. we will analyze your market area to help determine site feasibility and to help in selection of the franchise location. in analyzing a proposed site we examine its general location traffic patterns parking size physical characteristics proximity to competing businesses lease terms sign visibility neighborhood economic profile population density and accessibility. the exact determination of the location for the franchise premises will depend upon our approval and your and our market analysis market penetration plans and franchise placement strategies and prior franchise commitments. you must obtain our dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub prior written approval for the site of the franchise premises and your lease related to it. our response to your request for approval of a site will be given within days after we receive your written request. it is your responsibility to investigate all applicable zoning licensing leasing and other requirements for any proposed site. you must conform to any specific state or local regulations. you must ensure that the site you select complies with all local requirements. you will pay all out of pocket expenses for travel meals and lodging we incur to help you locate sites and to negotiate a lease for you. you will bear all other site selection and negotiation expenses. we may but are not obligated to inspect a proposed site. if we inspect a site we will not charge you for the first site inspection. we may require you to reimburse us for our reasonable expenses including travel lodging and meal expenses for additional site inspections. if we cannot agree on an area then we may choose to terminate the agreement. before you enter a lease or purchase agreement you will submit the lease or purchase documents to us for review. lease documents must include an assignment of the lease in a form we approve under which we may assume the lease as provided in section of the franchise agreement. approve or disapprove your franchise premises site plan. we will furnish to you a schedule of interior finishes and equipment packages for the franchise premises. all costs for site specific plans will be your responsibility. site plans and any modifications to them must be approved in writing by us before construction. all approvals will be solely within our discretion to maintain a uniform image and dcor consistent with our franchise system concepts. provide you the professional guide and various selling aids. the professional guide contains our specifications standards operating procedures accounting and bookkeeping methods marketing ideas student service requirements inventory requirements and control techniques plans fixture and dcor requirements colorado branding requirements opening public relations and other rules that we may prescribe and identify as part of the professional guide. these are identified for use in dance vision studios as applicable. the table of contents for our professional guide as of the date of this disclosure document is found in exhibit. provide for you the initial training program on the materials services and programs we and you will provide to individual studio franchisees and our franchise sales training program for sub franchisor franchise sales. section sub franchisor agreement. assist you in preparing franchise compliance documents and the individual studio franchise agreement into which you will enter with third party franchisees in your sub franchise territory. you must use our approved form of these documents and agreements. section. sub franchisor agreement provide you with required forms and reports. section sub franchisor agreement loan you a professional guide including inserts related to sub franchisor operations. section. sub franchisor agreement train your initial managers. section. sub franchisor agreement time to open the typical length of time between the signing of the franchise agreement or first payment of consideration for the franchise and the opening of the franchise for business is about to days. you are expected to complete the mandatory training and commence your franchise business operations within days after you sign the franchise agreement. factors that may affect this time are finding and negotiating for the studio arranging for the training session remodeling and equipping the studio obtaining initial inventory financing and business permit requirements and your personal operational needs. any failure caused by dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub a war or civil disturbance a natural disaster a labor dispute shortages or other events beyond your reasonable control will be excused for a time that is reasonable under the circumstances. if the training and commencement of operation obligation is not fulfilled we may terminate the franchise agreement by refunding not less than one half of the initial franchise fee. franchise agreement section. obligations after opening during the operation of your franchise business we william assist you in preparing and updating franchise compliance documents and the individual studio franchise agreement into which you will enter with third party franchisees in your sub franchise territory. section. sub franchisor agreement. approve or disapprove in writing franchisee candidates referred by you. section. sub franchisor agreement. approve or disapprove of all of your proposed ads marketing materials and programs for prospective franchisees prior to use. section. sub franchisor agreement. we may provide additional programs and seminars. section. sub franchisor agreement. assist you to train managers you hire. section. sub franchisor agreement. we may outline training programs for your employees including franchise sales agents in our professional guide. section. sub franchisor agreement advertising advertising funds see item concerning advertising assessments and required contributions. we currently do not have any local franchisee advertising cooperatives that collect and administer advertising funds. the funds are not audited. annual financial statements of the funds are available for your review once they have been prepared usually within days after the end of the relevant period. summary of advertising fund contributions and expenses for fiscal year expenses corporate overhead production of commercials and market research market level advertising total expenses advertising fund contributions excess of expenses over contributions we will make an accounting of the operation of any regional advertising funds annually and will make such accounting available to you upon request. studios that we operate will contribute to the advertising fund in the same manner as our franchisees. while advertising materials note that franchises are available from us no advertising fees or assessments we collect from our franchisees are used for advertising that is principally a solicitation for the sale of franchises. we may receive payment for providing advertising goods or services to our franchisees. we are not required to spend any amount on advertising in the area or territory where you are located. any advertising fees not spent in the fiscal year in which they accrue will be carried over for use in future years. promotional materials and other advertising information dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub we or our designee will direct all advertising programs used to promote the products and services offered by franchise studios. we will have sole discretion over all creative concepts materials and media used in these programs. these may be related to joint or individual promotion of the dance vision concept as we deem appropriate for our franchise system as a whole. advertisements generally will be in both print and broadcast media initially with local and regional coverage. we may use an outside advertising agency to create advertising. we may make available to you from time to time approved advertising and promotional plans and materials at our cost. franchise agreement sections. and. you will be required to insert a regular white pages listing in the main telephone directories serving the geographical area in which your franchise is located. any telephone directory advertisement must be approved by us in advance. franchise agreement section. in addition to the telephone directory advertisements described above you must spend not less than an amount equal to percent of your gross revenue on local advertising local advertising requirement. we may in our sole discretion require you to join a local advertising cooperative organized or approved by us and to contribute to such a cooperative not less than an amount equal to percent of your gross revenue. any cooperative if organized or approved by us will consist of one or more franchise owners that are located in the same geographic area newspaper circulation area or radio and television broadcasting area. this may include separate or combined promotions for the dance vision brands and concepts. your contributions to a cooperative if required by us will be credited toward satisfaction of your local advertising obligation as outlined in the professional guide. as of the date of this disclosure document no advertising cooperatives have been organized. franchise agreement section. we will supply to you an advertising section in the professional guide which will contain samples of local advertisements we approve. you will use only the advertising materials contained in the professional guide and may not without our prior written consent place any advertisement in any media which materially varies from the form and content of the approved advertisements in the professional guide. franchise agreement section. advertising cooperatives we currently do not have any local franchise advertising cooperatives. at any time we may create or modify advertising regions for the purpose of establishing regional advertising marketing and promotional programs. we will promptly notify you and our other franchisees of the establishment modification geographical boundaries and governing rules for regional advertising regions. we may require all franchisees located within each geographic region to meet periodically for the purpose of creating and establishing regional advertising programs. each franchise studio and each studio we own and operate will be entitled to one vote at these meetings. for the purpose of this subsection each studio we own will be deemed to be a franchise and there will be one vote per studio. if at any meeting of the franchisees in an advertising region percent of the franchisees vote to contribute to a regional advertising program all franchisees within that region will be obligated to make a contribution to a regional advertising fund in the amount established by the vote the regional advertising fundamental no advertising region may require any franchisee in that region to make a contribution to a regional advertising fund in excess of percent of that franchisee gross revenue. your contributions to the regional advertising fund will be credited toward your local advertising requirement. each regional advertising fund will be administered by representatives elected by each region at a meeting we call for this purpose. franchise agreement section. professional guide table of contents we will lend you a copy of the professional guide for your use during the term of the franchise agreement. it contains information on minimum standards and requirements for participating in using promoting and advertising dance vision programs services and products and for maintaining your franchise in the dance vision system. see franchise agreement section. the professional guide is confidential and remains the property of dance vision franchise international incorporated it contains mandatory and suggested guidelines dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub specifications fixtures furnishings equipment curricula and health and safety requirements standards and procedures. dance vision franchise international incorporated may modify the professional guide but the modifications will not alter your basic status and rights under the franchise agreement. the revisions may include advancements and developments in our standards fixtures furnishings equipment sales marketing operational techniques and other items and procedures used for the operation of the franchise. franchise agreement section. it consists of approximately pages. the current table of contents is found in exhibit to this disclosure document. training within days after you sign the franchise agreement you and any designated full time manager must attend and complete the initial training program to our satisfaction or we may terminate the franchise agreement upon refunding the initial franchise fee. you are encouraged to attend the training session as soon as possible after executing the franchise agreement and before incurring any costs or expenses related to the opening of the franchise. we will not be liable for your costs or expenses if we terminate the franchise agreement because you or the manager fails to complete the mandatory training to our satisfaction. if you are a corporation a partnership or a limited liability company one of those two people must be one of your principal owners. if you or your principal owners will not be directly involved in the supervision of the franchise business you must employ a designated manager who also has completed the initial training program to our satisfaction. franchise agreement section. you must successfully complete initial training at least weeks before starting to operate your franchise. we decide whether you have successfully completed initial training. the training will last for one week for a total of approximately hours of classroom and on site instruction. we do not schedule training on any regular recurring basis we schedule training based on the number of franchisees which need training at any given time and our logistic needs such as scheduling travel et cetera we strive to make training available when convenient for the trainees. the initial training program will be held at our offices in or las vegas nevada or at other mutually agreed upon locations. see items and above for a discussion of the costs and expenses associated with the initial training program. franchise agreement section. the current training schedule includes training program subject hours of classroom training hours of in studio training location software las vegas nevada management a las vegas nevada marketing las vegas nevada curriculum and media inventory las vegas nevada sales las vegas nevada human resources las vegas nevada equipment las vegas nevada production las vegas nevada note the hours devoted to each subject are estimates only and may vary substantially based on how quickly trainees grasp the material their prior experience with the subject and scheduling. if you purchase a sub franchisor franchise additional training will be required. the relevant background of our trainer wayne england is disclosed in item above. on occasion we may use other qualified trainers and sub franchisors to assist in the training course under the direction and supervision of mister england dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub the training materials are the professional guide. the training program consists of the described training materials selling aids and professional consultation. training will cover curriculum and media product preparation and presentation employee and independent instructor guidelines student relations general business operations retail sales practices franchise systems management bookkeeping and financial management media inventory control and purchasing security practices equipment operations increasing sales at your location and assisting in creating relationships with your students. the training program is included in the initial franchise fee. accommodations travel room board and wage expenses during this period are borne by you. the training program must be completed by all franchisees unless at our reasonable discretion based upon a franchisee experience it is deemed unnecessary. at the time the franchise opens for business and upon not less than thirty days prior written notice to us we will provide the full time services of a trainer at the studio for up to work days to assist with employee training computer software and form use studio decor merchandise display sales assistance and use of the professional guide. we will bear the trainer expenses for this assistance. at your option and upon not less than thirty days prior written notice to us you or your managers and employees may receive additional training at our training studio or at other agreed upon locations. all expenses of this training will be borne by you including but not limited to your travel lodging meals compensation and our reasonable costs and expenses including a reasonable training fee at our then current rates. you will not receive any compensation for services rendered by the trainee during this or any other training. franchise agreement section. from time to time we may provide refresher training programs or seminars and may require that you and your managers attend and complete them to our satisfaction. these programs and seminars will be held at locations we designate and will be provided without charge to you. you will be exclusively responsible for paying all travel living and other expenses and compensation of attending these programs and seminars. each year you and the designated managers of your franchise will be required to attend up to hours of programs and seminars depending upon program and seminar availability. franchise agreement section. we may hold conventions periodically for the franchisees that make up our franchise system. the convention may be held at a different location each time. the convention may include programs on sales and marketing techniques developments performance specifications advertising programs training suggestions and committee elections among other things. your attendance at each convention is strongly encouraged. you will bear all expenses of attending including travel lodging meals and entertainment. franchise agreement section. time to open after signing the sub franchisor agreement completing mandatory training and complying with any other pre opening obligations you may begin to operate as sub franchisor in your territory in compliance with your sub franchisor agreement. this typically occurs from to months after signing the sub franchisor agreement. this time period may be affected by your ability to secure financing if applicable state franchise sales agent registration for you if applicable and other factors. professional guide table of contents the professional guide is confidential and remains our property. it contains mandatory and suggested specifications standards and procedures. we may modify the professional guide but the modifications will not alter your basic status and rights under the sub franchisor agreement. it currently consists of approximately pages and its current table of contents is expressed in exhibit below. training requirements for sub franchisors you or one of your owners who owns at least of you must attend and complete to our satisfaction the initial training program and our franchise sales training program for sub franchisor franchise sales. you will dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub bear all travel meals incidental and lodging expenses in connection with this training. you are encouraged to begin training before incurring any costs or expenses related to the planned opening of your sub franchise franchise. we will not be liable for any costs or expenses you incur if we terminate this agreement because you fail to satisfactorily complete the mandatory training course. the current training schedule for sub franchisors includes training program subject hours of class room training hours of on the job training location basic practice walkthrough las vegas nevada new franchisee procedures las vegas nevada ethics rules regulations las vegas nevada key selling points and legal compliance las vegas nevada office procedures las vegas nevada marketing las vegas nevada advertising las vegas nevada franchise requirements las vegas nevada the training schedule may be amended. the principal trainer is wayne england he is responsible for the content and conduct of the training. his experience related to the training is described in item above. he will be assisted by members of the dance vision staff in las vegas by experienced franchise legal advisors and dance vision franchisees. the training materials are the professional guide. you will notify us of any persons you hire to manage your performance under this agreement and to sell individual studio franchises on your behalf. each manager and franchise sales agent you hire must successfully complete the mandatory training program within one month after being hired. you will bear all costs of the training including a reasonable training fee at our then current rates. each of your employees including franchise sales agents will complete a training program as prescribed in the professional guide. all training programs for your employees will be conducted under the direction of you or your designated manager who has successfully completed the mandatory training course. we may provide conventions and refresher training programs or seminars and may require that you or your managers attend and complete them to our satisfaction. these programs and seminars will be held at locations we designate and will be provided without charge to you. you will be exclusively responsible for paying all travel living and other expenses and compensation of attending these programs and seminars. each year you or the designated managers of your franchise must meet state and federal requirements dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub as mandated for franchise sales and service agents. in addition we may deem it appropriate or necessary to provide additional training and supervision to you and your managers and employees at your office location. if so you will fully participate in and complete this additional training and supervision including additional or revised training programs and processes that may be added to the professional guide in the future. section. sub franchisor agreement advertising requirements for sub franchisors at your own expense you will conduct marketing campaigns to sell dance vision franchises. this may include using advertising media attending trade shows and holding sales seminars or open houses. you must submit all ads marketing materials and programs for prospective franchisees to us for approval prior to use. approval will not be unreasonably withheld. advertising to attract franchisee candidates is to be placed in media approved in advance by us. all advertising you place must follow the provisions of the sub franchisor agreement and the professional guide. as a sub franchisor you must spend not less than each month for advertising that is primarily a solicitation of franchise sales. any advertising a sub franchisor conducts must first be approved by us and may need to be registered with a state agency before the ad may run. sub franchisor must provide us with verification of advertising conducted. you are solely responsible for preparing and placing all advertising to attract franchisee candidates at your expense. beginning days after execution of the sub franchisor agreement you must purchase place and run not less than worth of such advertising during each calendar quarter during the first twelve months the agreement is in effect during each calendar quarter during the second year and during each calendar quarter during each remaining year of the agreement on advertising exclusively designed to attract franchisee candidates. if the sub franchise territory encompasses more than one million inhabitants the minimum quarterly advertising placement is increased pro rata. i if the sub franchise territory contains three million inhabitants more than one million the minimum in the first twelve months is per quarter which is more than. upon renewal of the sub franchisor agreement the minimum advertising requirement will be based upon the then current standards for new sub franchisors. periodically as we specify you will provide copies of invoices representing the ads you have purchased placed and run during the period to meet the requirements above and include copies of the actual advertising purchased placed and run including tear sheets or other proof of performance. our regional and national advertising may result in leads being generated for prospects within your sub franchise territory. you will enter into individual studio franchise agreements with third parties in your sub franchise territory you will pay to us of the initial franchise fees to be paid by each individual unit purchasers you present to us. you will be exclusively responsible to place and to pay for advertisements to sell franchises in local media located in your sub franchise territory. prior to placement of any such advertising you will present the draft advertisements and promotional materials to us for our prior written approval which will not be unreasonably withheld. franchise sales advertising by you will include our phone number and contact information and your contact information. sub franchisors in adjacent territories or territories sharing media may advertise together and share the expense. we place advertising in national or regional media to generate sales leads. this includes web sites on the internet. you may not have any web site independent of ours subject to our direction and control. you will participate in all promotion and marketing activities we require of our franchisees as outlined in the professional guide. we currently do not have any local or regional sub franchisor advertising cooperatives or councils. dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub your office in sub franchise territory required equipment you must own open and maintain in operation at least one dance vision individual studio franchise in the sub franchise territory. you must sign separate franchise agreements for each franchise you own or operate. you are not required to have a separate office for your sub franchisor franchise. you must have the following equipment for your business operations under the sub franchisor agreement a fax machine with a dedicated telephone number a computer with modem an mail address a business telephone connected to a voice mail system and a cellular telephone. computer systems you will be required to acquire prior to the opening of your franchise and to exclusively use during the operation of the franchise a computer system the components of which are specifically identified below. they will be used as a software and media package and information system and to maintain and store all sales financial marketing management business information and all other data in your computer database and to produce sales reports inventory control and post sales tax refunds credits and allowances. you should maintain the system in good working order at all times and upgrade or update it during the term of the franchise agreement as we will require from time to time. it will be your responsibility to enter into contracts for the maintenance support upgrades and updates to your computer system with suppliers you chose. franchise agreement section. you purchase lease or otherwise acquire from sources of your choice and at your expense computer hardware and software including but not limited to programs software computer terminals scanners security cameras camcorders and cash registers. these must be totally compatible with and strictly conform to all requirements standards and specifications we set in the professional guide. you must have these systems in operation when you open your franchise for business. we have no obligation to maintain repair upgrade or update your computer hardware or software. you may purchase lease or otherwise acquire from sources of your choice and at your expense computer hardware and software including but not limited to programs software security cameras and computer terminals. we have no obligation to maintain repair upgrade or update your computer hardware or software. it is up to you to keep these well maintained up to date and functional. there are no direct contractual requirements concerning the frequency and cost for maintenance and upgrading. hardware computer ibm compatible pc processor intel processor ghz or faster memory gb or more hard drive tb or larger optical drive cd rw dvd rom cd reader writer and dvd reader monitor display capable of resolution. printer color laser printer copier scanner. high speed internet access such as dsl cable tense or other commercially available technology none of the hardware you are required to obtain is proprietary to us. any hardware that is functionally equivalent and fully compatible to that listed may be used. software operating system microsoft windows professional microsoft office or standard includes outlook word excel onenote and security software antivirus firewall and spyware microsoft security essentials recommended adobe reader or most current version for your os. quickbooks accounting software highly recommended over other accounting software franchise agreement section. dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub we have developed a comprehensive student relationship management and payment processing system. this software solution provides students franchisees and our management team with enhanced information management systems and marketing tools. we continue to upgrade and enhance our payment and referral systems that provide efficient internet access to dance vision students to our franchisees to insurance companies and other payers and third party obligors. we have independent access to your computer systems. we may require independent access to and use of the information and data on your computer systems. there are no contractual limits on such access and use. you are required to upgrade the computer systems to keep pace with technological advances as expressed in updates to the professional guide. there are no contractual limits on the frequency or cost of these upgrades. we estimate that the annual cost for the obligation will be from to. franchise agreement section. computer hardware and software will be used to integrate students accounts by using the computer accounting system software and procedures we provide and establish. you will communicate with us and with other franchisees within the dance vision system using our established communication guidelines and forms. franchise agreement section. we may at our discretion change our standards and requirements at any time to provide effective technology for the entire system. we will have full ability to poll your data system and related information by means of direct access whether in person or by telephone modem or on the internet. we will have access to all of your data and there will be no contractual limitation on our right to access your information or data. we may take a number of measures to ensure the security of our hardware and software systems and all student information. we may continue to enhance our systems for data management and protection intrusion detection and prevention our network architecture and to expand our disaster recovery processing capacity. we perform full back ups periodically and we require that you do the same at your clinic. we may continue to improve the speed and reliability of our information systems and transaction tools for all users by continually updating hardware and enhancing our software with new internally developed programs and functionalities. insurance our insurance requirements are outlined in item above and in the professional guide. insurance costs will vary widely according to numerous factors including size and location of your business premises and your computers equipment and fixtures. whether you are a sub franchise a colorado branded studio or individual studio franchisee upon commencement of and during the term of the franchise agreement we require you to obtain and keep in force by advance payment of premium appropriate insurance. this insurance will be written by an insurance company satisfactory to us in accordance with our standards and specifications in the professional guide. the insurance will include at minimum comprehensive general liability insurance including dram shop or host liquor liability if alcoholic beverages are served property damage contractual liability independent contractors liability owned and non owned automobile coverage and personal injury coverage which covers your business activities on any premise where you provide franchise related activities or dance instruction. the insurance will insure us you and our respective subsidiaries owners officers directors partners members employees servants and agents against any loss liability products liability personal injury death or property damage that may accrue due to your operation of the franchise. your policies of insurance will contain a separate endorsement naming us as an additional named insured. the insurance will not be limited in any way because of any insurance we maintain. in addition to these insurance requirements you will indemnify and hold us harmless from all fines suits proceedings claims demands actions losses attorney fees and damages arising out of or dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub connected with your franchise and the business activities acts or omissions of you and your franchisees employees and agents. except as disclosed in this item we need not provide any additional assistance to you. territory we grant to you the right to sell enter into individual studio franchise agreements with and provide the services indicated in this franchise disclosure document and the sub franchisor agreement for dance vision individual studio franchisees in the territory described in exhibit to the sub franchisor agreement the sub franchise territory. each sub franchise territory will vary in size and dimensions based upon advertising coverage population growth trends topographies geographies density and demographics. for so long as the sub franchisor agreement is in effect we will not operate or grant a sub franchise or sales agent agreement to any person other than you to operate in the sub franchise territory. however we reserve all rights not granted to you in the sub franchisor agreement. this includes the right to offer sell train and service or to license to others the right to offer sell train and service individual studio franchisees outside of the sub franchise territory. neither we nor our affiliates are restricted from participating in other distribution methods whether or not within the sub franchise territory and without paying any compensation to you including internet other forms of media now or in the future developed wholesale and mail order channels under marks and product configurations different than those offered through your sub franchisor franchise alternative distribution methods. you may not use alternative distribution methods. you may face competition from other franchisees from outlets that we own or from other channels of distribution or competitive brands that we control. however as stated above we will not operate or grant a sub franchise franchise or sales agent agreement to any person other than you to operate in the sub franchise territory. you may relocate your office in the sub franchise territory upon our written approval. minimum development obligation you are given a development schedule which obligates you to sell open a minimum number of studios during the initial term of your sub franchisor agreement a you must sell open and operate or otherwise qualify and procure within the sub franchise territory not less than the cumulative number of dance vision studios required in exhibit to the sub franchise agreement in the manner and within each of the time periods the development periods specified in that agreement the minimum development obligation. each dance vision studio sold and opened within the sub franchise territory will be the subject of a separate agreement. in the case of a dance vision studios you operate we and you will enter into a standard dance vision individual studio franchise agreement individual studio franchise agreement in the form attached as an exhibit to the then current form of the dance vision franchise disclosure document. in the case of a dance vision studios operated by an individual studio franchisee procured and qualified by you then that individual studio franchisee and we will enter into the standard form individual studio franchise agreement. all dance vision studios in the sub franchise territory which are the subject of an individual studio franchise agreement will be counted in determining whether the minimum development obligation will have been met within the development period. during the term of the sub franchisor agreement and subject to the terms and conditions of the sub franchisor agreement and the individual studio franchise agreements you may sell dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub or open and operate more studios in the sub franchise territory than required in the minimum development obligation. if you fail to meet these minimum openings we have the following options we have the right to terminate your sub franchisor agreement we have the right to assume youre selling and servicing obligations and retain the entire sub franchisor percentage we have the right to buy back your territory for the amount that you initially paid for it or we have the right to terminate your right to solicit and sell dance vision franchises in your exclusive area in which case you will earn no portion of any franchise fees paid and at our option we may allow you to remain the sub franchisor to service existing and future franchise studios while receiving your proportionate royalty percentage. we may terminate the sub franchisor agreement upon your failure to meet the minimum development obligation as outlined in the sub franchisor agreement. upon termination for this cause you may not establish any new or additional franchise or offer assist or service any other party to establish or operate an individual studio franchise under the sub franchisor agreement. you will cease all training support and services to the individual studio franchisees in the sub franchise territory. after termination or expiration of the sub franchise agreement you will cease all use of the marks and confidential information. you will abide by all post termination covenants in this agreement including without limitation confidentiality non competition and indemnity. you will no longer receive any portion of the initial franchise fees or ongoing payments received from individual studio franchisees. we will be free to resell or transfer your rights under this agreement and to market all types of franchises directly within the sub franchise territory with no obligation to remit any of the revenues from sales or fees of those franchises to you. all of your rights under the sub franchise agreement will cease and you will comply with terms and conditions of this agreement related to its expiration or termination. the minimum development obligation will be reviewed for completion of development within the sub franchise territory. additionally upon renewal changes in population and other changes in the sub franchise territory will also be reviewed. additional studios may be required to be developed during a renewal period due to such changes. population changes should be identifiable by city or census tract. the fee schedule may need to be modified at the time of renewal. our regional and national advertising may result in leads being generated for prospects within the sub franchise territory. neither we nor our affiliates are restricted from participating in other distribution methods whether or not within the sub franchise territory and without paying any compensation to you including internet other forms of media now or in the future developed wholesale and mail order channels under marks and product configurations different than those offered through your sub franchisor franchise alternative distribution methods. you may not use alternative distribution methods. you will not receive an exclusive territory. you may face competition from other franchisees from outlets that we own or from other channels of distribution or competitive brands that we control. however as stated above we will not operate or grant a sub franchise franchise or sales agent agreement to any person other than you to operate in the sub franchise territory. we do not operate or franchise the operation of or have any presently formulated plans or policy to operate or franchise the operation of any business selling or leasing under different trade names or trademarks goods or services similar to or competitive with those to be offered by you. however there is no restriction on our right to do so. you may relocate your sub franchise office in the sub franchise territory. dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub adjacent territories we may request that you will temporarily handle the services that you agree to perform in section of the sub franchisor agreement in adjacent territories which have not been sold to another sub franchisor and which are adjacent to the borders of your sub franchise territory. you will pay to us of the initial franchise fees and of the ongoing franchise fee payments you receive as outlined in the sub franchisor agreement for such studios during the time you are temporarily administering to the area. you will be considered for purchase of these adjacent territories after your successful operation in our sole opinion of the sub franchise territory for a minimum of months. you may request to purchase an adjacent available territory at any time. requests may be made for only one territory at a time. no more than one additional territory may be purchased by you in any month period. percent deposit will be charged at the time that your request is made which will be refunded only if we do not approve the sale. your request for purchase may only be made after you have operated the in sub franchise territory successfully for a minimum of months. if your request is granted the purchase must be made within days of the date of our approval. your request will be granted or denied in our sole discretion and judgment based on your current and past performance. first right of purchase and right of first refusal unless we otherwise specifically agree in writing you have no options rights of first refusal or similar opportunities to acquire additional rights in contiguous territories. our use of the service marks and our products and services dance vision franchise international incorporated retains all rights not specifically granted to you in your individual studio franchise or sub franchise agreement. this includes our right to use or license the use of our service marks and trademarks to others. neither we nor our affiliates are restricted from participating in other distribution methods whether or not within the franchise territory including internet other forms of media now or in the future developed wholesale and mail order channels under marks and product configurations different than those offered through your franchise. we reserve the right to market solicit sales and sell lease rent or otherwise dispose of franchise products and services to any person or customer we want. these include national accounts commercial customers franchisees end users or any other customer we may selection we may exercise our right directly or indirectly by or through independent contractors that may include franchisees dealers and brokers. dance vision franchise international incorporated retains the sole right to market on the internet including all use of web sites domain names url linking meta tags advertising auction sites commerce and colorado branding arrangements. you will provide us content for our internet marketing and follow our intranet and internet usage requirements. we also retain the sole right to use the service marks on the internet including on web sites as domain names directory addresses meta tags and in connection with linking advertising colorado branding and other arrangements. we retain the right to approve any linking or other use of our web site. you may not establish a presence on or market using the internet except as we may specify and only with our prior written consent. we intend that any franchisee web site be accessed only through our home page. subject to the terms of use on our web site we may gather develop and use in any lawful manner information about any visitor to the web site including but not limited to your students franchisees or prospective franchisees regardless of whether they were referred to you via the web site or were otherwise in contact with you. we may purchase or be purchased by or merge or combine with competing businesses wherever located. some of our franchises may be placed at a location where another separate business is operated under another business name such as a business or financial consultation office or accountant office. if the studio is at that type of location it will be deemed colorado branded for the purposes of the franchise agreement. dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub your use of the service marks and our products and services except as follows you may not establish or operate any other franchise establishment without executing a separate franchise agreement for that facility. except with our prior written permission you may not do business operate or place advertisements using our trade names or service marks in or originating from any area other than the franchise territory. you may not advertise in any media whose primary circulation is outside the franchise territory except with our prior written permission and the prior written consent of any of our franchisees whose territory is reached by that media. all internet marketing is part of our marketing programs described in the professional guide which includes an advertising section and defined in the franchise agreement and must be coordinated through us and approved by us. you may not market independently on the internet or acquire an independent internet domain name or web site. only dance vision franchise international incorporated may place national or regional advertising. all issues related to local students who deal with several of our franchisees and local opportunities that could involve more than one franchise will be addressed and resolved by our franchisees in the involved local area subject to our right to give reasonable direction and oversight and approval. we have not established and do not intend to establish other franchises or company owned outlets selling similar products or services under a different method of operation trade name or service mark. we are not contractually restricted from doing so. you do not receive the right to acquire additional franchises or to grant sub franchises. there is no minimum sales quota upon which your rights to the franchise territory depend. except as described in this item there are no other circumstances that permit us to modify your territorial rights. trademarks on february we. england incorporated and dance vision international dance association incorporated assigned all dance vision trademarks trade names and label rights to our sister entity tyftd llc which was organized under the laws of nevada on february as the holding company for all dance vision trademarks service marks and related administrative registrations. we have a license from tyftd llc to grant you the right to operate your franchise under the trademarks and service marks dance vision and dvida and related logos. you also will be granted the right to use other current or future service marks that we may designate in the professional guide. the service marks will include any trade names trademarks service marks and logos we use to identify your franchise studio. we refer to all of these commercial symbols as the service marks. pursuant to the franchise agreement you may use the service marks in your license business. dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub our affiliate tyftd llc. owns the following service marks and logos on the principal register of the united states patent and trademark office mark registration date registration number uses dance vision march video recordings of narrated dance techniques and music dance vision february dance studio instruction services and course materials competitions and events dvida january education courses and materials in dance instruction dance competitions demonstrations and events dvida logo october education courses and materials in dance instruction dance competitions demonstrations and events no claim is made to the exclusive right to use dance apart from the mark. there are no agreements currently in effect which limit our rights to use or license the use of the service marks except the following limitations in our license agreement with dance vision international dance association incorporated dance vision may only be used in connection with a our non exclusive right to sell dance vision products and an exclusive right in perpetuity to use dance vision solely in connection with our franchise system and the exclusive right in perpetuity to use dvida solely in connection with our franchise system. copy of the license agreement is available for review upon reasonable request. if we violate the license agreement and if dance vision international dance association incorporated terminates it then we and or you might be required to adopt a new or different name for the franchise program we know of no infringing uses that could materially affect your use of the service marks. dance vision franchise international incorporated also claims common law rights to the names dance vision and dvida and to the dance vision and dvida logos. the names and marks and logos are part of our franchise system. if our right to use any of these marks is challenged you may have to change to an alternative mark which may increase your expenses. we claim common law rights to the trademarks and service marks and any other marks used by us in interstate commerce in the united states. this claim is based upon our widespread use of the names in interstate commerce. renewals and affidavits renewal applications and other affidavits for the marks have been filed as required as of the date of this disclosure document. determinations there are no presently effective determinations of the united states patent and trademark office the trademark trial and appeal board the trademark administrator of any state or any court any pending interference opposition or cancellation proceeding and any pending material litigation involving the service marks in any state. dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub agreements there are no agreements currently in effect that limit our rights to use or license the use of the service marks. superior prior rights we do not know of any superior prior rights that could materially affect your use of the service marks. infringing uses while we are aware there are a number of businesses across the nation that include the word dance in their name we currently know of no infringing uses or expressed conflicting rights that could materially affect your use of the service marks. protection of rights you must follow our rules when you use the service marks. you cannot use the service marks as part of your corporate partnership or other entity name. you may not use our service marks in connection with the sale of an authorized product or service or in a manner we have not authorized in writing. you must immediately notify us of any apparent infringement of or challenge to your use of any of the service marks or any claim by any person of any rights in any of our service marks. you must not communicate with any person other than us and our legal counsel in connection with any such infringement challenge or claim. we have the sole discretion to take such action as we may deem appropriate to protect our service marks and to exclusively control any litigation patent and trademark office proceeding or other proceeding arising out any such infringement challenge or claim or action otherwise relating to our service marks. you must execute such comments render such assistance and do such acts and things as may in the opinion of our counsel be necessary or advisable to protect and maintain our interests in connection with any such litigation or proceeding to otherwise protect and maintain our interests in our service marks. the franchise agreement does not require us to indemnify you for expenses or damages if you are a party to an administrative or judicial proceeding involving a trademark licensed by us to you. the service marks are the sole and exclusive property of dance vision franchise international incorporated you must follow our rules when you use the service marks. you may not use the service marks in any manner we have not authorized in writing. all goodwill associated with the service marks including any goodwill that might be deemed to have arisen through your activities will accrue directly and exclusively to our benefit except as otherwise provided by applicable law. you may not use or give others permission to use the service marks or any colorable imitation of them combined with any other words or phrases. dance vision franchise international incorporated may change or modify any part of the service marks from time to time at our sole discretion. you will accept use and protect for the purposes of the franchise all changes and modifications as if they were a part of the service marks at the time the franchise agreement is executed. you will bear all costs and expenses which may be reasonably necessary because of these changes or modifications. under no circumstances will we be liable to you for any damages costs losses or detriments related to of these changes or modifications. to preserve the validity and integrity of the service marks and our copyrighted material and to assure that you are properly employing them we or our agents may enter and inspect your business operations at any reasonable time. in addition we or our agents may observe how services are rendered and operations are conducted. we may confer with your employees and customers and inspect to make certain that any dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub dance vision systems programs products or services are satisfactorily used by you and meet our quality control provisions and performance standards. patents copyright proprietary information copyrights various marketing sales dance training management and advertising materials created by us are and will be protected under the. copyright act whether or not registrations have been obtained. you may use these copyrighted materials during the term of the franchise in a manner consistent with your franchise rights solely for the purpose of operating and promoting your dance vision studios there are no currently pending copyright applications relating to our copyrighted materials. there are no currently effective determinations of the. copyright office library of congress or any court nor is there any pending infringement opposition or cancellation proceedings or material litigation involving the copyrighted materials which are relevant to their use by our franchise owners. there are no agreements currently in effect which significantly limit our right to use or license the use of our copyrighted materials in any manner material to the franchise. we do not know of any infringing uses of our copyrighted materials which could materially affect your use of those materials and all of the provisions in item under the heading protection of rights apply to copyrighted materials as well. we intend to affix a statutory notice of copyright to our professional guide to most of our advertising products and to our products and to all modifications and additions to them. there are no determinations agree ments infringements or obligations currently affecting these notices or copyrights. you have no rights to the copyrighted material. you are granted the right and are required to use the copyrighted items only with your operation of the franchise during the term of your franchise agreement. proprietary information we loan you proprietary copyrighted manuals and other technical and business manuals. item describes these manuals and the manner in which you are permitted to use the proprietary information in them. all documents and information provided to you including the information in the manuals are for your exclusive use during the term of the franchise and may not be reproduced loaned or shown to any person outside the dance vision system. you must have all of your managers and employees at the beginning of their employment sign confidentiality agreements in a form we prescribe. the professional guide is described in item. although we have not filed applications for copyright registration of the professional guide all copyrighted materials are our property. item describes limits on use of the copyrighted materials by you and your employees. you must contact us immediately if you learn of any unauthorized use of our proprietary information. you must also agree to not contest our rights to and interest in our copyrights and other proprietary information. your knowledge of the dance vision systems products programs manuals teaching materials and processes specifications standards and operating procedures of the franchise is derived from information we disclose to you. some of this information is proprietary and confidential. you will maintain the absolute confidentiality of all our proprietary information during and after the term of the franchise agreement and will not use any of our information in any other business or in any manner not specifically authorized or approved in writing by us. you may not make copies of the professional guide or any other dance vision manuals or materials or distribute the professional guide to any person or entity. dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub patents we have no patents material to your franchise. obligation to participate in the actual operation of the franchise business we recommend that you or one of your owners if you are a corporation or partnership participate fully in the actual day to day operation of the franchise business. managers you employ to help you to operate the franchise need not to have any equity interest in the franchise must successfully complete the mandatory training program described in item. the manager and all of your owners must agree to be bound by the confidentiality and non compete provisions of the franchise agreement. each of your owners must assume and agree to discharge all of your obligations under the franchise agreement. you are permitted to hire a manager to operate any studios that you may own so that you can devote your time to servicing the franchisees in your area. you must notify us of any persons you hire to manage your performance under the sub franchisor agreement. each manager you hire must successfully complete the mandatory training program within one month after being hired. you will bear all costs of the training including a reasonable training fee at our then current rates. each of your employees including franchise sales agents will complete a training program as prescribed in our professional guides. all training programs for your employees will be conducted under the direction of you or your designated manager who has successfully completed the mandatory training course. our step in rights. to prevent any interruption of the franchised business that would cause harm to the franchise and to our franchise system and lessen their value. we may to step in to operate the franchise when we deem necessary. reasons may include our determination that you are incapable of operating the franchise you are absent or incapacitated because of illness or death you have failed to pay when due any leases taxes or assessments against the franchise or property used in connection with the franchise you have failed to pay when due any liens or encumbrances of every kind placed upon or against your business property or we decide that operational problems require us to operate the franchise for a time. all revenue derived from our operation of the franchise will be for your account. we may pay from that revenue all expenses debts and liabilities we incur during our operation of the franchise. we will keep in a separate account all revenue generated by the operation of your business less the expenses of the business including reasonable compensation and expenses for us and our representatives. dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub. restrictions on what the franchisee may sell you must offer all manuals teaching processes and media products goods and services that dance vision franchise international incorporated designates as required by dance vision franchisees in the professional guide. we reserve the right without limitation to modify and add to the authorized manuals teaching processes programs products goods and services. you are not restricted in offering or selling other products services or goods in your dance related business so long as they are not in competition with the dance vision products services or programs required in the professional guide. we require that you use offer and sell only those curricula equipment products goods and services that we approve in writing. you must offer all products goods and services that we designate as required by our franchisees. we reserve the right without limitation to modify delete and add to the authorized products goods and services. we may at any time expand or reduce the types of products and services which you must or may offer and you must discontinue offering any products or services even if previously approved promptly on notice from us. at no time may you offer or sell prohibited or unapproved products or services. franchise development compliance. as a sub franchisor you will at your expense comply with all franchise registration and disclosure laws that pertain to you including registration as a franchisor and as a franchise seller if required and timely delivery of our approved form of franchise disclosure document in compliance with applicable state and federal laws. unless we make financial performance representations in item of this disclosure document you may not make or give financial performance representations to prospective franchisees see item for more information. you may not offer franchises in a state that requires franchise registration or exemption until your registration or exemption is effective in that state. at any time we may require that you allow us on your behalf and at your expense to prepare submit and prosecute state franchise registration and exemption filings. you and we must fully comply with all franchise registration and disclosure laws that pertain including preparing and registering if required the franchise disclosure document. if laws or regulations governing your activities described in the franchise agreement require the preparation amendment or filing of information or documents together including an appointment of broker and broker information in the franchise disclosure document we and you will prepare the required documents and filings cooperatively. we and you will each bear our own costs of compliance with such requirements. you must cooperate with us and provide all complete and accurate disclosure and registration information requested by us or required by law. you may not make any material misrepresentations or omit to disclose or fail to disclose material facts to us your prospective franchisees or governmental authorities. we may monitor all of your activities including the creation registration use delivery and acknowledgment of receipt of all franchise disclosure documents franchise agreements adver tising and promotional materials and your written and oral representations made to all existing or prospective franchisees. dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub. renewal termination transfer and dispute resolution these tables list certain important provisions of the franchise and related agreements. you should read these provisions in the agreements attached to this disclosure document. provisions section in sub franchisor agreement summary a length of the franchise term section years. renewal or extension of term section additional year terms. requirements for you to renew or extend section you must a be in compliance with all terms and conditions of sub franchisor agreement and individual studio franchise agreements. pay the renewal fee of of the initial franchise fees you paid to originally purchase your franchise. sign a general release to release us from any claims you may have against us. attend and successfully complete any retraining program we prescribe in writing. this will be done at your expense including travel meals and lodging. sign a new sub franchisor agreement. you may be asked to sign a contract with materially different terms and conditions than your original contract. termination by you section you may terminate the sub franchisor agreement at any time upon at least prior written notice to us. termination by us without cause we may only terminate the sub franchisor franchise agreement for cause. termination by us with cause section we may terminate the sub franchisor agreement for cause. cause defined curable defaults section your material breach must be cured within days after notice specifying the nature of the breach. cause defined section the sub franchisor agreement will terminate automatically if you are dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub provisions section in sub franchisor agreement summary non curable defaults convicted of a felony reflecting disease favorably on us or the service marks abandon the business fail on three or more separate occasions within any period of consecutive months to comply with the sub franchisor agreement commit a material breach of a franchise agreement or any other agreement between us and you that is not cured upon the notice if any specified in the franchise agreement or other agreement or become insolvent or subject to any chapter of the us bankruptcy code see sub franchisor agreement for more information and exceptions. i your obligation on termination non renewal sections cease acting as sub franchisor cease all use of marks and confidential information non competition nondisclosure. assignment of contract by us section no restriction on our right to assign. transfer by you definition section you may not sell assign sub license mortgage encumber transfer by operation of law or by any other means or otherwise dispose of sub franchisor agreement or the rights or interests under the agreement including any assets without our prior written consent. our approval of transfer section we have the right to approve all transfers by you. we will not unreasonably withhold approval. conditions for our approval of transfer section for a transfer to a third party the transferee must meet our then current standards there must be no existing default by you transferee must sign our current agreement forms and transferee and transferee manager must complete training and pay reasonable training fee. you or the transferee must pay a transfer fee of. in addition you or the transferee must pay a percent commission on the gross transfer price if we obtain the transferee for you. our right of first refusal to acquire your business section we may purchase on the same terms that are acceptable to you. we have days to decide whether to purchase after you notify us of the proposed sale. our option to purchase your dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub provisions section in sub franchisor agreement summary business. your death or disability sections within days your heirs beneficiaries devisees or legal representatives may apply to continue to operate the franchise in which case there is no transfer fee or transfer franchise interest. non competition covenants during the term of the franchise sections you must not directly or indirectly compete or assist in competition with any business engaged in the development or sale of products programs or services comparable to the method of operation or in competition with the dance vision franchise system. non competition covenants after the franchise is terminated or expires sections for days after termination or expiration and within sub franchise territory within miles of the sub franchise territory within those states where dance vision franchises and regional developers are located and within the united states of america you must not directly or indirectly compete or assist in competition with any business engaged in the development or sale of products programs or services comparable to the method of operation or in competition with the dance vision franchise system. modification of the agreement section the sub franchisor agreement can be modified only by written agreement between us and you. integration merger clause section the sub franchise agreement including the attached exhibits expresses the sole and complete understanding between the parties concerning the independent contracting sales and service agent relationship between the parties. our integration merger clause does not disclaim the representations in this disclosure document. dispute resolution by arbitration or mediation section no dispute is required to be arbitrated. except for certain claims regarding confidential information or the service marks if a dispute arises between the parties the parties agree to participate in at least hours of mediation in accordance with the mediation procedures of the american arbitration association or of any similar organization that specializes in the mediation of commercial franchise business disputes. the parties agree to dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub provisions section in sub franchisor agreement summary equally share the costs of mediation. mediation will take place in the city in which our headquarters is then located currently las vegas nevada. choice of forum section disputes will be mediated tried heard and decided in the city in which our headquarters is then located currently las vegas nevada except as limited by state law and as stated in state addenda to this franchise disclosure document. choice of law section nevada law applies subject to state law except that dispute regarding the marks will be governed by the united states trademark act of lanham act. second et seq. public figures no public figure is involved in our franchise program at the present time. financial performance representations the ftc franchise rule permits a franchisor to provide information about the actual or potential financial performance of its franchised and or franchisor owned outlets if there is a reasonable basis for the information and if the information is included in the disclosure document. financial performance information that differs from that included in item may only be given if a franchisor provides the actual records of an existing outlet you are considering buying or a franchisor supplements the information provided in this item for example by providing information about possible performance at a particular location or under particular circumstances. we do not make any representations about a franchisee future financial performance or the past financial performance of company owned or franchised outlets. we also do not authorize our employees or representatives to make any such representations either orally or in writing. if you are purchasing an existing outlet however we may provide you with the actual records of that outlet. if you receive any other financial performance information or projections of your future income you should report it to the dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub franchisor management by contacting wayne england west sahara avenue suite las vegas nevada wayne dancevision.com the federal trade commission and the appropriate state regulatory agencies. outlets and franchise information table number system wide outlet summary sub franchise franchises as of march column outlet type column year column outlets at the start of the year column outlets at the end of the year column net change company or affiliate owned march march march sub franchisor march march march total outlets march march march table number from franchisees to new owners other than the franchisor as of march column state column year column number of transfers california march march march nevada march march march texas march march march dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub column state column year column number of transfers totals march march march table number status of sub franchisor franchises as of march column state column year column outlets at the start of the year column outlets opened column terminations column non renewals column reacquired by franchisor column ceased operations other reasons column outlets at end of year california march march march nevada march march march texas march march march totals march march march table number status of company owned outlets as of march column state column year column outlets at the start of the year column outlets opened column outlets reacquired from franchisees column outlets closed column outlets sold to franchisees column outlets at end of year individual unit march march dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub column state column year column outlets at the start of the year column outlets opened column outlets reacquired from franchisees column outlets closed column outlets sold to franchisees column outlets at end of year march sub franchisor march march march totals march march march table number projected sub franchisor franchise openings as of march column state column sub franchisor agreements signed but not opened column projected new sub franchisor franchises in the next fiscal year column projected new company owned outlets in the current fiscal year california nevada texas totals if you buy this franchise your contact information may be disclosed to other buyers when you leave the franchise system. the following is a complete listing of all of our current sub franchisor franchisees and the addresses and telephone numbers of all of their operations as of march texas dance projects incorporated john elsbury texas corporation sandstone drive frisco texas john texasdanceprojects.com the following is a complete listing of all of the current individual studio franchisees sold by our sub franchisors and the addresses and telephone numbers of all of their operations as of march dance vision fulshear andreas kenigsberger november federated states of micronesia churchill farms suite fulshear texas dance vision mckinney craig and olga elsbury november dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub. eldorado parkway mckinney texas dance vision pearland daniel marie blain january broadway street suite pearland texas dance tonight plano craig elsbury january preston road suite plano texas dance vision clearlake daniel marie blain april gulf freeway suite webster texas the following is a complete listing of all the dance vision companies owned by wayne england and the addresses and telephone numbers of all of their operations as of march wayne england phone is and his email address is wayne dancevision.com. west sahara avenue suite las vegas nevada the following is a list of the name city and state and the current telephone number or if unknown the last known home telephone number of every franchisee who had an outlet terminated canceled not renewed or otherwise voluntarily or involuntarily ceased to do business under the franchise agreement during our most recently completed fiscal year or who has not communicated with us within weeks of the date of this disclosure document. if you buy this franchise your contact information may be disclosed to other buyers when you leave the franchise system none during the last three fiscal years we have not signed confidentiality clauses with any of our current or former franchisees which restrict such franchisees from communicating with prospective franchisees concerning their experience in the franchise system. however we sign agreements with current and former franchisees that include confidentiality clauses that protect our intellectual property and our proprietary information. the confidentiality clauses in these agreements may also relate to specific negotiated franchise agreement terms and conditions. the following is a list to the extent known by us of the names addresses telephone numbers email address and web address of each trademark specific franchisee organization associated with the franchise system being offered which we have created sponsored or endorsed none the following is a list of any independent franchisee organizations that have asked to be included in this disclosure document none dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub. financial statements attached in exhibit are our audited financial statements as of march and. our fiscal year end is march. contracts attached are sample copies of the following agreements you may have to sign when you purchase your franchise. standard sub franchise agreement with exhibits conditional assignment of phone number abandonment relinquishment and termination of assumed business name state law addendum confidentiality agreement electronic debit authorization form. receipts attached to this disclosure document are two acknowledgments of receipt. they are duplicates that evidence your receipt of this disclosure document one is to be retained by you the other by us exhibit. dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub exhibit to the dance vision franchise disclosure document dance vision franchise international incorporated audited financial statements as of march and dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub exhibit to the dance vision franchise disclosure document dance vision franchise international incorporated list of state regulatory authorities and registered agents names and addresses of state regulatory authorities and registered agents in states state registered agents regulatory authorities california california commissioner of financial protection and innovation los angeles west th street suite los angeles california sacramento arena boulevard sacramento california san diego frazee road suite san diego california san francisco one sansome street suite san francisco california commissioner department of financial protection and innovation west th street suite los angeles california florida not applicable senior consumer complaint analyst department of agriculture and consumer services division of consumer services mayo building second floor tallahassee florida hawaii commissioner of securities of the department of commerce and consumer affairs merchant street room honolulu hi commissioner of securities merchant street room honolulu hi illinois illinois attorney general franchise division south second street springfield illinois chief franchise bureau illinois attorney general. randolph street chicago illinois indiana secretary of state administrative offices of the secretary of state state house indianapolis in securities commissioner securities division room west washington street indianapolis in iowa not applicable director of regulated industries unit iowa securities bureau east maple des moines iowa dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub state registered agents regulatory authorities maryland maryland securities commissioner street paul place baltimore medicinae doctor office of the attorney general division of securities street paul place baltimore medicinae doctor michigan michigan department of commerce corporations and securities bureau. ottowa law building lansing michigan franchise administrator consumer protection division antitrust and franchise unit michigan department of attorney general law building lansing michigan minnesota minnesota commissioner of commerce th place east suite street paul minnesota deputy commissioner minnesota department of commerce th place east suite street paul minnesota nebraska not applicable staff attorney department of banking and finance street suite. box lincoln nebraska new york secretary of state of the state of new york washington street albany new york assistant attorney general bureau of investor protection and securities new york state department of law broadway road floor new york new york north dakota north dakota securities commissioner fifth floor east boulevard bismarck north dakota franchise examiner office of securities commissioner east boulevard th floor bismarck north dakota oregon director of oregon department of insurance and finance corporate securities section labor and industries building salem or oregon agent corporation commercial street north east suite salem or department of consumer and business services division of finance and corporate securities labor and industries building salem or rhode island director of rhode island department of business regulation division of securities suite providence rhode island associate director and superintendent of securities division of securities richmond street suite providence rhode island south dakota director of south dakota division of securities south euclid suite pierre south dakota franchise administrator south dakota division of securities south euclid suite pierre south dakota dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub state registered agents regulatory authorities texas not applicable secretary of state statutory document section. box austin texas utah not applicable division of consumer protection utah department of commerce east three hundred southern box salt lake city utah virginia clerk of the state corporation commission. main street richmond virginia chief examiner investigator state corporation commission division of securities and retail franchising. main street richmond virginia washington director of department of financial institutions securities division. box olympia washington administrator department of financial institutions securities division. box olympia washington wisconsin wisconsin commissioner of securities. box. washington avenue th floor madison wisconsin franchise administrator securities and franchise registration wisconsin securities commission. washington avenue th floor madison wisconsin federal trade commission franchise rule coordinator division of marketing practices bureau of consumer protection pennsylvania avenue at th street north west washington. dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub exhibit to the dance vision franchise disclosure document professional guide table of contents. owners vision and mission statement stabilize your studio. studio models the private lesson studio the large group class studio the competition studio the hall rental studio writing business plan for your dance studio hands on approach how to analyze your studio pricing structure are you shooting yourself in your own foot?. employees the cycle of life at your studio. staffing your studio executive director owner director of marketing and programs customer service manager administrative assistant human resources manager graphic designer associate director front desk customer service maintenance and facilities director marketing assistant outside events coordinator housekeeping staff weekend manager director assistant professional dance instructor the staff meeting. special considerations for professional instructors basic training class format being a great teacher developing your teaching staff how to develop and retain extraordinary dance teachers pay structure for teachers. amazing customer service it the little things that count turn offs for ballroom dance students how to avoid these common mistakes. general guidelines for marketing your studio marketing that works what to do and how to do it marketing the neglected key to success telephone marketing prospective client information brochure. student achievement awards developing your students using student achievement awards standardized or specialized? how to run an outstanding student award program program faq for studio owners checklist for student award achievement preparation checklist for the day of the exams the responsibility of the dance instructor student information and faq. professional dance teacher exams dance vision franchise disclosure document sub franchise offering dance vision fddsub examiners overview brief outline for professional exams examination criteria levels preparing for examination examination structure conclusion. private lesson programs teaching private lesson the first private lesson. group class program why teach group classes? how to build a dynamic group class program how to teach an outstanding group classical policies that work for staff and students sticky situations sample employee handbook table of contents hour cancellation agreement dress for work policy floor rental policy professional practice policy compensation policy dance teacher promotion refund cancellation policy conflict of interest non compete time off policy. indemnity insurance condemnation and casualty indemnity insurance condemnation casualty. branding logo system color palette. studio supplies essentials sample forms administrative payroll ballroom event planning booking celebrity lessons evaluation by manager event project worksheet event ticket sales exit interview floor rental agreement floor rental application gift certificate tracking group class registration key agreement public practice policies procedures student payment record dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub exhibit to the franchise disclosure document dance vision franchise international incorporated sub franchise agreement for use in the united states and selected foreign countries dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub table of contents recitals. grant of sub franchise rights. term and renewal development of territory. fees and payments. duties and rights of dance vision. duties of sub franchisor. marks. confidential manuals information and materials. confidential information. accounting and records. advertising. insurance. transfer of interest. default and termination. obligations upon expiration or termination. covenants. ownership of improvements. compliance with laws. relationship of parties indemnification. government approval effective date. miscellaneous exhibit the sub franchise territory exhibit development schedule exhibit sba addendum dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub dance vision franchise international incorporated sub franchise agreement this agreement is made and effective the day of. it is between dance vision franchise international incorporated a corporation incorporated under the laws of the state of nevada west sahara avenue suite las vegas nevada united states of america and its successors and assigns collectively dance vision. and an individual resident of and a company incorporated under the laws of texas its registered office is at jointly and severally sub franchisor. dance vision over a period of years and as the result of the expenditure of time skill effort and capital has developed and owns a unique system the system. the system is identified by trade names service marks trademarks logos emblems and indicia of origin including the mark dance vision and other trade names service marks and trademarks as are now or may in the future be designated by dance vision for use in connection with the system collectively the marks. the system relates to the establishment development and operation of dance instruction businesses and dance competitions and the sale of related products. dance vision owns valuable goodwill and has valuable expertise confidential information methods procedures techniques uniform standards operations manuals inventory control guidelines systems layouts merchandise and materials. these are connected with the operation promotion and advertising of dance vision dance studios and dance competitions. dance vision has extensively advertised and used the system in the united states of america and world wide. the distinguishing characteristics of the system include without limitation exclusively designed names logos and signage the dance vision confidential operations manual called the professional guide curricula and instruction procedures materials and techniques operating procedures for dance studios and competitions and methods and techniques for inventory and cost controls record keeping and reporting personnel management purchasing promotion and advertising all of which may be changed improved and further developed by dance vision. dance vision has extensive goodwill and market attraction in the marks and the system in the united states of america and extensive knowledge experience information and ability relating to use of the system. dance vision has developed aspects of the system for training management products and marketing techniques procedures and operating methods. dance vision has established an excellent reputation with the public as to the quality of the products and services specified by dance vision for the system. this reputation and goodwill have been and continues to be a benefit to dance vision and to its customers. the success of dance vision and of its system depends upon the reputation and goodwill and upon the continued integrity and quality of the system and the offering of the system through dance vision franchises who maintain the highest standards of business practice and provide courteous and quality service to customers. sub franchisor wishes to obtain the exclusive sub franchise rights for the territory defined in exhibit the sub franchise territory to operate under the system and to establish dance vision franchises using the system and the marks franchises in the sub franchise territory and to license unaffiliated third parties franchisees to establish and operate dance vision franchises using the system and the marks collectively dance vision franchises. sub franchisor wishes to be assisted trained and licensed by dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub dance vision as a dance vision sub franchisor in the sub franchise territory. dance vision has developed guidelines processes and techniques to assist sub franchisor in the sale development and servicing of dance vision franchises including a standard form of franchise agreement the professional guide and franchisee training programs. sub franchisor has read this agreement and the dance vision franchise disclosure document. sub franchisor understands and accepts the terms conditions and covenants contained in this agreement. they are necessary to maintain high standards of quality service and uniformity at all dance vision franchises. they protect and preserve the goodwill of the marks and the confidentiality and value of the system. now therefore in consideration of the mutual covenants in this agreement dance vision and sub franchisor agree as follows section grant of sub franchise rights. dance vision grants the rights to sub franchisor and sub franchisor accepts the obligations i to establish and operate the system within the sub franchise territory including the right to own and operate dance vision franchises. this will be done pursuant to the terms of this agreement and the procedures manuals and other agreements dance vision requires from time to time of dance vision franchises modified as reasonably appropriate to reflect the laws and customs of the sub franchise territory pursuant to the terms of the studio franchise disclosure document and studio franchise agreement you prepare for use in the sub franchise territory as outlined in the professional guide. ii to license unaffiliated parties as franchisees to establish and operate franchises within the sub franchise territory as described in section below and iii to use the marks and the system for these purposes. the foregoing and the operation and business of the franchisees and the franchises in the sub franchise territory is collectively referred to as the dance vision business. during the term of this agreement except as otherwise provided dance vision will not establish directly or indirectly through any affiliate nor license anyone other than sub franchisor to establish any part of the dance vision business in the sub franchise territory without sub franchisor prior written consent. dance vision promptly will inform sub franchisor in writing of all inquiries and contacts dance vision receives for the purchase of dance vision franchises that relate to the sub franchise territory. dance vision reserves all rights except for those explicitly granted to sub franchisor in this agreement. dance vision may sell market and distribute goods and services of any kind identified by the marks through any retail wholesale or other channel of distribution regardless of whether they are now existing or developed in the future or are now part of the system. as it deems appropriate dance vision will include in all published information directed at or of potential use to the nationwide and international market including internet web sites that sub franchisor has been designated as dance vision sub franchisor for the sub franchise territory. at all times in the future sub franchisor must continue to own and operate at least one dance vision studio in the sub franchise territory pursuant to franchise agreements sub franchisor executes with us. sub franchisor will use this studio for training of dance vision franchisees in the sub franchise territory. dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub sub franchisor must have all required an approved equipment and product inventory for sub franchisor business operations under this agreement and under the franchise agreements for the studios sub franchisor owns and operates in the sub franchise territory. in addition sub franchisor will maintain a dedicated telephone number a computer with modem an mail address a business telephone connected to a voice mail system and a cellular telephone. sub franchisor must inform dance vision and all franchisees in the sub franchise territory of sub franchisor current telephone and fax numbers and mail address. if sub franchisor is unable to meet the studio ownership requirement solely as the result of force majeure including but not limited to war riot strikes material shortages fires floods earthquakes and other acts of god or by governmental action or force of law which results in the inability of sub franchisor to open or operate dance vision studios in the sub franchise territory and which sub franchisor could not by the exercise of due diligence have avoided that requirement will be extended by the amount of time during the such force majeure will exist provided that if any such force majeure continues for a period of excess of one year dance vision may terminate this agreement upon written notice to sub franchisor. section term and renewal development of sub franchise territory. the initial term of this agreement is for ten years from the effective date described in section. upon the expiration of the initial term sub franchisor has the right to renew the term of this agreement for additional ten year periods on dance vision then current sub franchise agreement forms. then current as used in this agreement will mean the form then currently provided to prospective sub franchisors or area developers or if not then being provided then the form dance vision selects in its sole discretion which previously has been delivered to and executed by a sub franchisor of dance vision. the agreement will be conformed to the sub franchise territory with regard to its laws and commercial customs. if sub franchisor does not accept the renewal agreement within days of dance vision notice the failure may be deemed by dance vision as sub franchisor decision not to renew. sub franchisor right to renew is subject to the following terms and conditions sub franchisor will deliver to dance vision written notice of sub franchisor intent to renew not less than days and not more than days prior to the expiration of the term under which sub franchisor is then operating. sub franchisor must have been in substantial compliance with this or the then current agreement during its entire term. sub franchisor must complete to dance vision satisfaction all maintenance renovation and remodeling of its dance vision franchises. sub franchisor and dance vision must have agreed to a new development schedule for the renewal term. sub franchisor will pay to dance vision a renewal fee equal to of the initial franchise fees you paid to originally purchase this sub franchise. if dance vision has not offered rights to new sub franchisors or renewed any sub franchisor agreement within years of the time for renewal then dance vision may elect to not renew. otherwise prior to the expiration of the final renewal term under this agreement the parties agree to negotiate in good faith the terms of a new sub franchise agreement to be executed by the parties. sub franchisor through affiliates may establish and operate franchise locations pursuant to the terms and conditions of this agreement. each franchise owned by a sub franchisor affiliate and each franchise sold by sub franchisor must be established and operated pursuant to a franchise agreement executed by sub franchisor with a third party franchisee which may be an affiliate of sub franchisor franchisee. for purposes of this agreement an affiliate means any person or entity controlling controlled by or under common control with another person or entity. dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub. the franchise agreement for each franchise granted pursuant to this agreement must be based on the terms and conditions for operation of the franchises described in this agreement. these terms and conditions may be modified as reasonably necessary upon the reasonable mutual agreement of dance vision and sub franchisor in good faith. the franchise agreement may include additional terms as appropriate for the dance studio and dance competition industry in the sub franchise territory and may be translated into the languages common to the sub franchise territory. dance vision must be named as a third party beneficiary in the franchise agreement and will have the right to function as sub franchisor under any franchise agreement if sub franchisor defaults and does not cure that default under that franchise agreement or under this agreement and upon expiration of this agreement. sub franchisor will obtain a legal opinion by legal counsel based upon the laws of the sub franchise territory in favor of dance vision that all franchise agreements to be executed by sub franchisor give dance vision the unrestricted right to function as sub franchisor in sub franchisor place as described above. the parties will cooperate to complete the approved form franchise agreement for use in the sub franchise territory by or later time as the parties may agree. when completed the approved form for the franchise agreement will be added as an exhibit to this agreement. sub franchisor may not modify the approved franchise agreement without the written consent of dance vision. dance vision reserves the right to reasonably approve option sub franchisor franchisee placement and territorial designation plans and policies. option the territorial designation for each franchisee. the parties contemplate that the normal territory designation will have a radius of approximately driving miles depending upon available forms of transportation. the franchise agreement for each franchise must be executed as described in section. dance vision reserves the right to approve or disapprove each prospective franchisee and each proposed franchise location within days after receiving notice and satisfactory information from sub franchisor. the parties agree that exhibit outlines the mutually satisfactory development schedule for the number of dance vision franchises to be established under and during the term of this agreement. sub franchisor undertakes that there will be open and in operation on the dates shown no fewer than the minimum cumulative total number of dance vision franchises described in exhibit the development schedule. in the alternative sub franchisor may comply with the financial performance standards outlined in exhibit the financial performance standards. if sub franchisor does not adhere to the development schedule on or after the third anniversary date of this agreement then notwithstanding section. above dance vision will have the right to establish and operate or grant to others the right to establish and operate dance vision locations and operations in the sub franchise territory. nevertheless this agreement and sub franchisor other rights and obligations and duties will continue in full force and effect until the end of the term of this agreement however it may not be renewed absent dance vision advance written consent in its sole and exclusive and absolute discretion. except when otherwise agreed by dance vision all dance vision confidential operation manuals including the professional guide products processes will be dance vision exclusive property. dance vision curricula materials and products whether produced by sub franchisor or dance vision approved suppliers may only be used within the system and may only be offered by sub franchisor or by sub franchisor franchises in the sub franchise territory. dance vision will provide the curricula compositions standards and specifications for dance vision materials and products to sub franchisor upon sub franchisor request in connection with such production. sub franchisor and any supplier selected by sub franchisor to supply dance vision materials and products will enter into a confidentiality agreement in a form approved by dance vision naming dance vision as a third party beneficiary of such agreement with the independent right to enforce its rights. dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub section fees and payments. sub franchise and initial franchise fees. sub franchisor will pay to dance vision the sum of as the sub franchise fee. it is paid in consideration of the license and rights granted to sub franchisor by this agreement dance vision expenses incurred in relation to this agreement the marks and development of the system sales expenses administrative overhead including acquisition of legal counsel return on investment and start up costs including initial sub franchisor training for the execution of this agreement and the establishment of the sub franchise. in addition sub franchisor will pay to dance vision the sum of as the sub franchise territory fee. it is based upon the population of the sub franchise territory and is paid in consideration of the grant of the sub franchise territory and for dance vision lost or deferred opportunity to sell sub franchises in the sub franchise territory to others. all dollar amounts expressed in this agreement are. dollars unless otherwise noted. this amount will be paid as follows. these fees are not refundable and will be deemed fully earned when received. in addition sub franchisor will pay to dance vision the greater of or percent of the up front payments including initial franchise fees paid by franchisees for franchises in the sub franchise territory. this payment will be made by the th day of each month based upon up front payments received by sub franchisor during the preceding calendar month. sub franchisor will execute a franchise agreement with dance vision for each dance vision location operated by sub franchisor under which it will pay to dance vision a non refundable initial franchise fee of the greater of or percent of the up front payments including initial franchise fees then being paid by franchisees for franchises in the sub franchise territory. royalty fee. sub franchisor will charge a royalty fee for each independently owned franchise in the sub franchise territory. the royalty fee will equal not less than of the individual franchisees gross revenue each week. sub franchisor will pay to dance vision of the total royalties paid to sub franchisor by each of its franchisees for the corresponding week. payment must be made each week for gross revenue received during the prior week from all dance vision franchises in the sub franchise territory. unless otherwise agreed each week will end on sunday night at. continuing franchise fee. sub franchisor will execute a franchise agreement with dance vision for each dance vision location operated by sub franchisor under which it will pay to dance vision a non refundable continuing franchise fee of percent of the then current weekly royalty fee charged by sub franchisor to its franchisees. this continuing franchise fee will be assessed on sub franchisor gross receipts from its dance vision operations under the franchise agreements sub franchisor executes with dance vision. the franchise agreements will be in the same form approved by dance vision and required by sub franchisor of its franchisees. the intent of the parties is that this continuing franchise fee is calculated in the same manner as and paid at the same time as the royalty fee described above. dance competitions. subject to dance vision approval sub franchisor will create develop and promote at least regional dance competition events in the sub franchise territory each year. each dance competition event will feature multiple dance categories. sub franchisor will pay to dance vision a competition fee for each competitor registered in each separate dance category of an event as outlined from time to time in the professional guide currently per competitor per category for example a single dance would be a multi dance event would be and a dance championship event would be. unless otherwise permitted or required by the professional guide the following terms and dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub conditions apply to sub franchisor regional dance competition events warranties and obligations. sub franchisor is solely responsible for the administration organization and promotion of dance competitions in the sub franchise territory and will bear all related costs and liabilities. sub franchisor agrees that all professionals and teachers participating in any dance vision events must be registered with pro dvida a minimum of days prior to the event. no on site registration will be permitted. sub franchisor acknowledges that closed events are for pro dvida members only and are only allowed promoting and advertising to dance vision studios and pro dvida members. reports and audits. upon the completion of sub franchisor dance competitions sub franchisor will provide a report of the competition to dance vision. this report will be prepared using competition software programs and will be emailed to dance vison within days of completion of the competition. in the event of discrepancy in a report dance vision will have the right to audit as follows upon at least days written notice dance vision may inspect sub franchisor books and records and all other documents and material in the possession of or under the control of sub franchisor. if there is a short fall in the amount of fees owed to dance vision sub franchisor will pay that amount plus interest calculated at. per month. all of sub franchisor books and records will be maintained and kept accessible and available to dance vison for inspection for at least years after termination of this agreement. sub franchisor will promote and require each franchisee to support and participate in at least one dance vision national dance competition each year. the minimum participation is outlined from time to time in the professional guide currently single dance entries at per entry for a total of. competition payments will be paid within days after conclusion of the event with a per day fee on late payments. advertising fee and local advertising requirements and regional advertising fundamental sub franchisor will pay to dance vision a non refundable advertising fee of percent of the total gross receipts generated by all dance vision franchises and dance studios or dance competitions sub franchisor operates in the sub franchise territory. this may be taken from the regional advertising fund described in section below. payment must be made each week for gross revenue received during the prior week. the intent of the parties is that this adverting fee is calculated in the same manner as and paid at the same time as the royalty fee described above. advertising fee funds will be used by dance vision to conduct research develop materials manage advertising and generally to promote recognition of the system and marks worldwide in national internet and international advertising for some or all of the following maintaining administering researching directing and preparing advertising and promotional materials marketing research and development marketing surveys and public relations activities development and maintenance of internet and commerce programs marketing materials decor and promotional materials artwork advertising services training related to marketing student service and sales augmentation and our reasonable salaries accounting collection legal and other costs related to the above. dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub dance vision internal artwork advertising promotion and newsletter production costs and associated administrative costs are paid from the advertising fees. these will be calculated at cost as established from time to time. dance vision will use the advertising fee to place advertising in geographic areas in media at times and using products and services it deems to be in the best interest of franchisees and the dance vision franchise system as a whole. dance vision will have sole discretion over the creative concepts materials endorsements placement and allocation of moneys from the advertising fee. the advertising fee will be used to maintain administer direct prepare and review advertising materials and programs as dance vision will in its sole discretion deem proper. dance vision is under no obligation to administer the advertising fee to ensure that expenditures are proportionate to contributions of franchisees for any given market area or that franchisee benefits directly or proportionately from the development or placement of advertising. dance vision will not be obligated to expend all or any part of the advertising fee during any specific period of time. in its sole subjective discretion exercised in good faith dance vision will determine the cost form of media content format production timing including regional or local concentration and seasonal exposure location and all other matters relating to franchise advertising public relations marketing market research and promotional campaigns. in its sole discretion dance vision will have the right to expend the advertising fee in any geographic area that it in good faith deems appropriate regardless of the geographic distribution of franchises. dance vision may use portions of the advertising fee as it deems appropriate as a contribution to joint or collective advertising campaigns of the suppliers of franchise equipment inventory and supplies. in addition sub franchisor will spend not less than percent of its gross revenue generated at the dance vision dance studios or dance competitions it operates on local advertising for the benefit of sub franchisor and its franchisees in the sub franchise territory. at least two thirds of this amount will be placed in a regional advertising fund calculated on the same basis as franchisees are required to contribute to the regional advertising fund under their franchise agreements. sub franchisor will not commingle the regional advertising fund with its other funds and accounts. the regional advertising fund will be administered by sub franchisor and will be used for regional advertising purchases local advertising purchases for franchisees who do not benefit from regional programs. preparation and distribution of camera ready advertising copy scripts and broadcast ready advertising signs posters brochures banners and other point of sale promotional materials for use by franchisees in their local advertising professional advertising and public relations assistance other advertising and promotional activities to increase demand for dance vision products and services in the sub franchise territory. sub franchisor will deliver to dance vision an annual accounting in english and the language of the sub franchise territory of the regional marketing fund and of sub franchisor other advertising and promotional contributions received and expenditures made and remaining balances within days after the end of each calendar year. this accounting will be in the form and have the format approved by dance vision. purchase of dance vision products upon sub franchisor request dance vision may provide dance vision curricula materials services and products to sub franchisor at dance vision then currently established wholesale prices and deliver them to sub franchisor. site of supply. the cost to sub franchisor will include dance vision shipping dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub costs and any costs incurred by dance vision to modify the product for the sub franchise territory market. upon request dance vision will provide documentation and invoices substantiating the production and delivery costs included in the cost of dance vision curricula materials services and products. sub franchisor will pay dance vision for dance vision products indiana dollars within days of receipt from dance vision of an invoice accompanied by the shipping documents including letters of credit or other agreed upon forms securing payment. if in shipment or delivery any portion of a shipment of dance vision products is lost destroyed or otherwise unavailable for use due to an occurrence of shipping or any other cause dance vision agrees to replace at dance vision sole cost and expense and as soon as possible the portion by shipment to sub franchisor. the production site. risk of loss will pass to sub franchisor at the designated. point. under no circumstances will dance vision or any supplier be obligated to cause any shipment to commence prior to receipt of payment or documentation securing payment in full. dance vision training consulting and direct expenses dance vision agrees to provide to sub franchisor and to its franchisees at sub franchisor option reasonable training and consulting services. sub franchisor will pay dance vision for these services at dance vision then established hourly rates together with dance vision documented out of pocket costs reasonably related to the services including travel lodging translation living expenses and living costs for dance vision staffordshire upon request dance vision will provide documentation and invoices substantiating the services and out of pocket costs. gross receipts means all revenues generated by sub franchisor and the dance vision franchises all amounts received from the sale of dance vision curricula materials products services and other items and all amounts generated from any other business transacted through or in connection with the dance vision system whether in kind barter counter credit cash or for credit. gross receipts does not include initial franchise fees received by sub franchisor and shared with dance vision in licensing franchises. sub franchisor may deduct from gross receipts the amount of any refunds paid by dance vision franchises to customers and the amount of national state and local sales consumption or excise taxes collected by dance vision franchises from customers and paid by such franchises to the appropriate taxing authorities in the sub franchise territory. unless otherwise directed in writing by dance vision all payments made pursuant to this agreement will be paid to dance vision in united states dollars deposited by wire transfer or other method reasonably directed to the bank accounts dance vision designates from time to time. sub franchisor will bear all costs and expenses of the payment and transfer. computation of any amounts to be paid which require conversion from sub franchise territory currency to. dollars will be made at the telegraphic transfer selling rate for. dollars quoted by. bank national association or its successor with respect to sub franchise territory currency on the last business day of the month during which the relevant fee was earned or if payment is made more frequently than monthly on the date the payment is due. if any governmental or other authority having jurisdiction in the sub franchise territory prohibits conversion of currency to. dollars or prohibits the transfer of funds or currency to the united states dance vision may require that sub franchisor transfer and deposit all or any portion of any payment in a permitted dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub currency and to an account in a permitted jurisdiction. dance vision may terminate this agreement if the prohibitions continue for more than consecutive months but only with respect to and as it may strictly apply to that sovereign jurisdiction so affected. all payments by sub franchisor will be paid in full without set off or counterclaim and free and clear of and without deduction or withholding for or on account of any present or future taxes duties levies imposts or charges of any nature. if sub franchisor is required by law or regulation of the sub franchise territory or otherwise to make any deduction or withholding from any payment to dance vision sub franchisor will add to that payment enough additional monies to ensure that dance vision receives the full amount that it would have received had no deduction or withholding occurred. sub franchisor is liable for payment of turnover sales value added consumption and similar taxes imposed in the sub franchise territory. sub franchisor will withhold from payments to dance vision the amount required to be withheld if any under applicable income tax law in the sub franchise territory. sub franchisor promptly will pay these amounts to the appropriate tax authorities and will deliver to dance vision official receipts and other evidence issued by those authorities sufficient to enable dance vision to support a claim for credit for the taxes paid against its united states income taxes. sub franchisor will indemnify and hold dance vision harmless from and against any claims or losses resulting from failure to comply with the obligations outlined in this section. if sub franchisor fails to timely forward to dance vision any required periodic report whether written or digital of its sales and development activities or the sales and activities of its franchisees as required from time to time by dance vision or if it fails to pay any amount owed to dance vision when and as outlined in this agreement sub franchisor will pay the following late payment penalties. per month for each delinquent report. percent per month of the amount due for each delinquent payment plus. a percentage penalty calculated at the rate of five percentage points over the prime rate at the. bank national association calculated daily or the maximum allowed by law if less on all overdue amounts owed to dance vision. these penalties will not exceed any legal limit placed by relevant laws within the sub franchise territory. sub franchisor failure to report or pay will be a material breach of this agreement. the franchise agreement forms may require return some or all of the individual unit franchise fees to a franchisee under certain circumstances. therefore no portion of a payment will be fully earned by dance vision until the fees have been fully earned by sub franchisor. to the extent that there is a contractual obligation to return some or all of a fee to a franchisee dance vision payment will be reduced and returned in the same ratio as the portion of the fee returned to the individual studio franchisee bears to the fee retained. if some or all of a fee is returned by sub franchisor to a franchisee written notice will be given of the reasons for the return. section duties and rights of dance vision. dance vision will provide training and consultation to sub franchisor and to sub franchisor franchisees pursuant to sub franchisor requests as dance vision reasonably deems appropriate or necessary. dance vision will provide to sub franchisor one copy in english of all dance vision confidential system procedures and operations manuals and technical documents collectively professional guide or manuals currently used in the united states. dance vision will provide to sub franchisor updates to the manuals as they are prepared from time to time. sub franchisor will have the dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub right to make and translate a sufficient number of copies of the manuals for use provided that the use of all copies and translations will be pursuant to the terms of this agreement. dance vision will provide to sub franchisor information regarding dance vision dance studio and dance competition products and information regarding dance vision product developments. dance vision will provide reasonable on site assistance by dance vision staff to sub franchisor in the sub franchise territory at sub franchisor expense. this will be paid as mutually agreed to cover dance vision fully burdened cost including compensation related overhead and actual out of pocket expenses. this will include assistance to sub franchisor in the following areas adjustment of the system in the sub franchise territory advice on establishment and operation of dance vision franchises marketing plans training of franchisees and suppliers and other areas as reasonably requested by sub franchisor. dance vision will share with sub franchisor all technical and marketing information dance vision has developed or does develop during the term of this agreement. sub franchisor may use materials dance vision creates without cost except for the cost of duplication and delivery unless the parties agree otherwise in writing. dance vision will make available reasonable on going support and assistance in the operation of the dance vision business as dance vision deems necessary. dance vision will maintain a continuing advisory relationship with sub franchisor concerning training franchise sales advertising and other general business and dance studio and dance competition practices. dance vision will keep sub franchisor informed of innovations and changes in the system and the marks together with the methods of implementing them. dance vision also will provide from time to time samples of products and new system dance studio dance competition and management system specifications developed by dance vision. dance vision will make itself available at its home office for continuing consultation and guidance of sub franchisor in the operation of the dance vision business as sub franchisor reasonably requests. sub franchisor will have the right to ask dance vision staff about problems relating to the operation of the dance vision business by telephone or written correspondence and dance vision will use its best efforts to diligently respond to such inquiries and to assist sub franchisor in the operation of the dance vision business. dance vision may inspect sub franchisor training facility personnel and franchises at reasonable business hours and may suggest changes to sub franchisor training facility personnel or franchises. dance vision will keep sub franchisor informed of requirements and developments relating to the furnishing and equipping of dance vision franchises. dance vision will permit sub franchisor employees and franchisees access to dance vision training facilities and seminars to undertake the training offered there on the same terms and conditions as afforded by dance vision. sub franchisor or its franchisees as appropriate will bear all expenses of all training including but not limited to training fees costs of travel food lodging and employees wages. dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub. from time to time when available dance vision will send to sub franchisor promotional materials and bulletins on new products sales marketing developments and techniques. upon sub franchisor reasonable request dance vision will provide ongoing training at its home offices or other mutually agreed locations to employees of sub franchisor as sub franchisor designates from time to time subject to availability and dance vision training schedule. sub franchisor will pay all the costs relating to this ongoing training including costs for transportation meals lodging reasonable training fees and translation. section duties of sub franchisor. dance vision will provide a top level two day orientation program in english its home offices or other mutually agreed locations for up to three of sub franchisor top executives. dance vision also will provide an initial training program in english for up to employees of sub franchisor at its home offices or other mutually agreed locations beginning within days of sub franchisor request. at least one of the trainees in both the orientation and training programs must be fluent in english and able to properly translate to the others. this training course will cover all aspects of the operation of the franchise including financial controls marketing techniques service methods deployment of labor and maintenance of quality standards. sub franchisor employees must satisfactorily complete the training program to dance vision exclusive satisfaction. if none of these employees complete the training to dance vision satisfaction they may undertake additional training at sub franchisor expense until such time that one or more either successfully complete the training program to dance vision reasonable satisfaction or dance vision reasonably determines that additional training efforts are not likely to result in satisfactory completion in which event dance vision may terminate this agreement upon refunding all but of the initial franchise fee. sub franchisor is encouraged to begin training before incurring significant costs or expenses related to the planned opening of its operations in the sub franchise territory. dance vision will not be liable for any costs or expenses sub franchisor incurs if it terminates this agreement because the employees fail to satisfactorily complete the mandatory training course. sub franchisor will send at least one principle owner or employee manager to each convention annual dance competition held by dance vision. attendance at no more than one convention competition per year will be required. sub franchisor will bear all of its expenses of attending each convention including but not limited to costs of travel registration food lodging translation costs and employees wages. from time to time dance vision may provide refresher training programs or seminars and may require that sub franchisor or its managers attend and complete them to dance vision satisfaction. these programs and seminars will be held at locations dance vision designates and will be provided without charge to sub franchisor. sub franchisor will bear all of its expenses of attending this training including but not limited to costs of travel food lodging translation costs and employees wages. each year required attendance may be for up to hours of programs and seminars depending upon program and seminar availability. upon sub franchisor request training to other employees of sub franchisor will be provided by dance vision at a reasonable training fee set by dance vision. these additional training sessions will be scheduled by dance vision in its reasonable discretion in accordance with availability. sub franchisor will bear all expenses of all training and convention attendance including but not limited to costs of travel food lodging translation costs and employees wages. sub franchisor will establish and maintain for its franchisees a training program and procedures reasonably satisfactory to dance vision. until that training is approved and in place all training will be conducted by dance vision at its training locations at its home offices or other mutually agreed locations at sub franchisor expense. sub franchisor will conduct training for the managers and employees of its franchises as it deems necessary and as required by the franchise agreement and by this agreement. sub franchisor trainers must have successfully been trained by dance vision on how to train franchisees and their employees or otherwise be approved by dance vision. training by sub franchisor in the sub franchise territory will be conducted at a location or locations designated by sub dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub franchisor. successful completion of the training program is required of all dance vision franchise managers and of all franchisees. trained manager or trained employee must be available at each dance vision franchise during business hours. sub franchisor will require its franchisees to attend refresher training programs or seminars as necessary and as advised by dance vision. upon sub franchisor reasonable request dance vision will provide ongoing training in its home offices or other mutually agreed locations to employees of sub franchisor as sub franchisor designates from time to time subject to availability and dance vision training schedule. sub franchisor will pay all the costs relating to this ongoing training including costs for transportation meals lodging reasonable training fees and translation. sub franchisor will fulfill all the duties of franchisor under each franchise agreement in a timely manner including but not limited to providing advice to franchisees about the system selection designation and approval of suppliers and training of franchisees and their employees. sub franchisor will enforce all the terms and conditions of each franchise agreement with respect to franchisees including but not limited to adherence to the professional guide proper use of the marks successful completion of training adherence to system criteria and compliance with the standards and specifications for operation of the franchises. at least days prior to the proposed commencement of operation of each dance vision franchise sub franchisor will notify dance vision of the proposed opening and the address of the proposed location for the franchise. sub franchisor will execute a franchise agreement in form and content approved by dance vision with each franchisee prior to the opening of a franchise and will provide dance vision within ten days of execution an executed copy and english translation if necessary of each franchise agreement along with the names business address and telephone number of the franchisees and such other information as dance vision reasonably requests from time to time. the dance vision business will be operated in accordance with dance vision standards and specifications as provided for in this agreement and in the manuals described in section subject to reasonable modification approved in advance by dance vision in writing to adapt the system to the needs customs and tastes of the sub franchise territory. sub franchisor acknowledges and agrees that dance vision dance studio and dance competition curricula materials services products and programs are critical to the success of the dance vision program. accordingly sub franchisor agrees to obtain dance vision dance studio and dance competition curricula materials services products and programs only from sources approved in advance in writing by dance vision as described in this agreement. sub franchisor will absorb the associated freight and handling costs. sub franchisor and the franchisees may have dance vision products supplied and may purchase accessories products equipment supplies and other items used in connection with the system from suppliers as sub franchisor determines provided that i the suppliers meet dance vision standards and specifications. ii dance vision approves the supplier in writing which approval may be withdrawn at any time at dance vision reasonable discretion. iii the supplier executes a confidentiality agreement approved by dance vision and naming dance vision as a third party beneficiary that includes a provision preventing the supplier from selling or otherwise using the dance vision dance studios and dance competitions or other products outside of the dance vision business. dance vision dance studios dance competitions products and services will always remain dance vision exclusive property on loan to sub franchisor and the supplier. dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub iv sub franchisor will indemnify and hold dance vision harmless from any damages costs or expenses incurred by dance vision as a result of the failure of sub franchisor or any supplier to execute an appropriate confidentiality agreement or abide by the terms of such agreement or as a result of any personal or business injury from dance vision products or other product produced by sub franchisor or its franchisees. once the appropriate confidentiality agreement is in place dance vision will provide all information needed by the supplier. to assure standardization and uniform product quality among dance vision franchises sub franchisor and its franchises will promote and sell only those curricula materials services products and programs approved by dance vision as described in the manuals or otherwise in writing by dance vision from time to time. all products used in connection with the dance vision business or offered for sale by sub franchisor or its franchises not purchased from approved suppliers including product suppliers must have prior written approval from dance vision. to obtain written approval sub franchisor will comply with dance vision procedures reasonably established from time to time by dance vision in writing. these procedures may include without limitation the following requirements sub franchisor must submit the product and information as dance vision may require. the proposed supplier must be able to supply a product meeting dance vision quality standards and specifications. dance vision may require that samples from alternate suppliers be delivered to dance vision or to a designated independent testing laboratory for testing before approval and use. charge not to exceed the actual cost of the test may be made by dance vision or by an independent testing laboratory designed by dance vision and will be paid for by sub franchisor. the proposed supplier must authorize or be willing to authorize a representative of dance vision to periodically inspect the supplier premises supplier raw materials and production facilities. the proposed supplier must be able to meet dance vision requirements regarding standardization and availability of products program compliance quality control trademark protection indemnification and insurance as specified by dance vision in writing. sub franchisor must be able and willing to reimburse or pay in advance at dance vision sole election dance vision reasonable expenses incurred in reviewing the product and the supplier facilities including travel food lodging and employee expenses. sub franchisor will share with dance vision all technical and marketing information sub franchisor has developed or does develop during the term of this agreement. dance vision may use materials sub franchisor creates without cost except for the cost of duplication and delivery. dance vision will not share sub franchisor information with any other person or entity without sub franchisor express prior written permission. sub franchisor and its franchises will at all times operate in a clean wholesome attractive and safe condition and in good maintenance and repair. sub franchisor will actively and diligently promote the dance vision system and its franchises and exercise best efforts in the conduct of business by its franchisees. sub franchisor will employ sufficient qualified staff to effectively conduct the dance vision business in the sub franchise territory and use its best efforts to market dance vision franchises to prospective qualified franchisees and to meet the minimum performance objectives and schedules expressed in this agreement. dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub. sub franchisor will at all times maintain one or more business offices and relevant telephone facsimile and internet communication capacities to conduct its business under this agreement. these offices and capacities will be located to permit sub franchisor to adequately supervise and promote sell and supervise franchises and to act as sub franchisor in the sub franchise territory. these offices will be attractively maintained and will meet all local and national laws and requirements. dance vision may enter the offices or any franchised location at reasonable times to verify compliance with the terms of this agreement. in doing so dance vision may inspect the office or location observe operations of the franchise business for any consecutive or intermittent periods deemed necessary interview personnel and customers and inspect and copy any books records tax and other documents related to operations under this agreement and any other franchise information dance vision may require. sub franchisor will develop a marketing plan to attract qualified franchisee candidates within the sub franchise territory. sub franchisor will consult with dance vision about the plan and will furnish a copy of the plan to dance vision. sub franchisor will communicate with dance vision in english or in languages appropriate to the sub franchise territory and with an english translation version attached. this includes all reports correspondence proposed advertisements and any other written document or oral communication provided for any reason. dance vision will have the right to require sub franchisor and its franchisees to purchase or lease maintain and upgrade computer hardware point of sale systems software and other equipment for the purpose of performing bookkeeping accounting purchasing communications and other functions related to operation under this agreement. these will be compatible with dance vision computer and communications systems and ongoing specifications. translation of software will be at sub franchisor expense. sub franchisor will not establish nor will it allow its franchisees to establish a presence on the internet or on any other electronic national or international medium using any domain name or address containing the word dance vision or any similar word or mark. dance vision retains the sole right to advertise on the internet and create a web site using the dance vision domain name. dance vision is the owner of all rights to domain names and directory addresses as dance vision designates or uses. sub franchisor will provide to dance vision copies of its legal and business entity organizational documents as reasonably requested by dance vision and will promptly notify dance vision of any change in its business organization or legal status including all sub franchisor owners of record and general or limited partners. sub franchisor will immediately notify dance vision of any termination of renewal of or refusal to renew of any franchise agreement including notice of intent to renew or not renew whether given by sub franchisor or by its franchisees. employees. sub franchisor is exclusively responsible to train and make sure its employees and independent contractors meet the standards specifications and procedures outlined in the professional guide. sub franchisor will hire only efficient competent sober and courteous employees for the conduct of the franchise business and will pay their wages commissions piece work and any other compensation justly due with no liability on the part of dance vision. sub franchisor will control its own employees and independent contractors. dance vision will not have the power to hire fire direct supervise or discipline them. sub franchisor will maintain complete and accurate employee records and clearly document in all relevant ways that sub franchisor and its employees are not employees of dance vision or of sub franchisor franchisees. sub franchisor must comply with all state and federal laws in respect to sub franchisor employees. sub franchisor acknowledges that sub franchisor has dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub had ample opportunity to investigate these and other laws applicable to sub franchisor business with sub franchisor own independent legal counsel before signing this agreement. sub franchisor must indemnify and hold dance vision legally harmless from any of sub franchisor violations of such laws. sub franchisor is exclusively responsible to create and use employee and human resources handbooks and manuals that sub franchisor prepares specifically for sub franchisor business operations tailored to the legal jurisdictions within which sub franchisor operates with the advice of hour professionals and legal advisors sub franchisor selects. sub franchisor exclusively determines the wages and payment rates and methods of payment to sub franchisor employees and independent contractors. sub franchisor must pay special attention to federal and state wage and hour laws with respect to sub franchisor employees. sub franchisor must comply with all such laws and pay sub franchisor employees properly. sub franchisor is responsible for any employee wages and compensation payroll taxes and other required withholding worker compensation and benefits. sub franchisor is responsible for any employee wages and compensation payroll taxes and other required withholding worker compensation and benefits. sub franchisor is exclusively responsible to monitor supervise and control the scheduling performance efficiency and efficacy of sub franchisor employees and independent contractors and to make adjustments to improve the results of their efforts. if sub franchisor decides to share employees or independent contractors with other franchisees then sub franchisor will indemnity and hold legally harmless dance vision and dance vision affiliates officers directors employees and agents from any claims losses attorney fees and damages resulting from such activities. sub franchisor acknowledges that this provision does not constitute an endorsement to share employees with other franchisees. sub franchisor is responsible to train and to make sure sub franchisor employees and independent contractors meet the standards specifications and recommendations outlined in the professional guide including those related to appearance customer service background checks and drug testing as applicable. sub franchisor is required to hire and maintain sufficient staff in order to handle customer volume at all times. sub franchisor will ensure that sub franchisor employees present a neat and clean appearance and render friendly efficient sober and courteous service to sub franchisor customers and franchisees. all employees and independent contractors whose duties include customer or franchisee service must have sufficient literacy and fluency in english and other relevant languages to serve the public. subject to relevant local laws sub franchisor may not hire any employee or independent contractor who has been found guilty of any charges of fiduciary misconduct any form of unlawful sexual conduct any felony of any kind or any similar charges that reflect negatively on the person moral turpitude and character. all revenues generated under this agreement from all business activities of the franchise must be paid directly to sub franchisor and not directly to sub franchisor employee or independent contractor. dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub section marks. sub franchisor agrees that the marks are the sole and exclusive property of dance vision. only dance vision and its designated licensees and sub licensees have the right to use the marks. dance vision intends to register has applied to register or has registered some of the marks in the sub franchise territory or in the united states of america. dance vision makes no representation concerning any existing uses or violations of the marks in the sub franchise territory. nothing in this agreement or any other agreement between the parties will give sub franchisor or others any right title or interest whatsoever in the marks. where applicable sub franchisor agrees to execute and file on request at its expense all documents necessary to record sub franchisor as a registered user of the marks. sub franchisor will immediately notify dance vision of any infringement of or challenge to sub franchisor use of the marks. sub franchisor acknowledges that dance vision has the right to direct and control any administrative proceeding or litigation involving the marks including any settlement. dance vision agrees to consult with and keep sub franchisor informed of the status of all proceedings. dance vision has the right but not the obligation to take action against uses by others that may constitute infringement of the marks. if dance vision declines to take action against uses by others that may constitute infringement of the marks after having been requested to do so by sub franchisor sub franchisor may take action. sub franchisor will modify or discontinue use of any marks or will use one or more substitute names or marks if dance vision so directs in writing at any time. the sole obligation of dance vision in that event will be to reimburse sub franchisor for tangible costs in complying with that direction i cost of changing signs stationery et cetera under no circumstances will dance vision be liable to sub franchisor for any other damages costs or expenses related to the direction. all obligations or requirements imposed upon sub franchisor relating to the marks will apply with equal force to any modified or substituted names or marks. sub franchisor will not contest directly or indirectly dance vision ownership title right or interest in the marks or dance vision exclusive right to register use or license others to use the marks. sub franchisor will not advertise or use the marks without following dance vision then current guidelines and requirements. these may include but will not be limited to the placement of appropriate copyright and registration marks under the laws of the sub franchise territory. all goodwill associated with the marks including any goodwill that might be deemed to have arisen through sub franchisor activities will accrue directly and exclusively to the benefit of dance vision except as otherwise provided by applicable law. sub franchisor acknowledges that the terms of this agreement including the amount of the fees reflected in section are designed to fully compensate sub franchisor for development of goodwill and a customer base in the sub franchise territory. sub franchisor is not entitled to any additional compensation under the laws of the sub franchise territory for any type of market development on expiration or termination of this agreement. sub franchisor appoints dance vision its agent and attorney in fact to amend or cancel any registered user or business name filings obtained by or on behalf of sub franchisor and that involve or pertain to the marks. sub franchisor will not use the marks on dance studios dance competitions materials curricula products or services emanating from any source other than dance vision or sources approved in writing by dance vision. except as provided in this agreement sub franchisor will not use or give others permission to use the marks or any colorable imitation of them combined with any other words or phrases. sub franchisor and sub franchisor directors officers and agents will not form or participate in the formation of any company firm corporation or other entity having a name containing the words of the marks. sub franchisor may not combine or associate any name or symbol of the marks with any other name or word in any advertising or sign. the marks must be used in exact conformity with specifications set by dance vision in writing. sub franchisor will not register or attempt to register or assist or otherwise be involved in any effort to register the marks or colorable imitations of them anywhere. dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub. with respect to sub franchisor use of the marks pursuant to this agreement sub franchisor agrees that sub franchisor will use the marks designated by dance vision only in the manner authorized and permitted under this agreement and in writing by dance vision. unless otherwise authorized or required by dance vision the dance vision business will be operated and advertised only under the name dance vision without prefix or suffix or any other addition or modification. sub franchisor right to use the marks is limited to uses as are authorized under this agreement. any unauthorized use will constitute an infringement of dance vision rights. sub franchisor will not use the marks to incur any obligation or indebtedness on behalf of dance vision. sub franchisor will execute any documents deemed necessary by dance vision or its counsel to obtain protection for the marks or to maintain their continued validity and enforceability. if dance vision undertakes the defense or prosecution of any litigation relating to the marks sub franchisor agrees to execute any and all documents and to do acts that may in the opinion of counsel for dance vision be necessary to carry out such defense or prosecution including but not limited to becoming a nominal party to any legal action. dance vision agrees to reimburse sub franchisor and its franchisees for their out of pocket costs in doing such acts except that sub franchisor and its franchisees will bear the salary costs of their respective employees. dance vision will bear the costs of any judgment or settlement so long as the judgment or settlement is not the result of use of the marks by sub franchisor or its franchisees in a manner inconsistent with the terms of this agreement the franchise agreement or of the manuals and dance vision received the full cooperation of sub franchisor and its franchisees. sub franchisor expressly understands acknowledges and agrees that dance vision is the exclusive owner of all right and interest in and to the marks and the goodwill associated with and symbolized by them the marks serve to identify dance vision system and franchisees. sub franchisor will not use the marks to incur any obligation or indebtedness against dance vision. sub franchisor use of the marks pursuant to this agreement does not give sub franchisor any ownership or other interest in or to the marks except as granted by this agreement. upon expiration or termination of this agreement no monetary amount will be assigned as attributable to any goodwill associated with sub franchisor use of the dance vision system or the marks. dance vision will not be in breach of this agreement if it loses its rights to license the marks and sub franchisor will continue to operate under this agreement using substitute names and marks as directed by dance vision. effective upon the expiration or termination of this agreement sub franchisor will direct the company servicing sub franchisor to disconnect the telephone dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub number listed under the dance vision name and other marks in any then current telephone email and website directories or transfer those numbers email addresses and websites to dance vision or to such person and location as dance vision directs. if sub franchisor fails to promptly so direct the company in accordance with dance vision instructions sub franchisor irrevocably appoint dance vision as attorney in fact to direct that company to make such transfer. sub franchisor understands and agrees that notwithstanding any billing arrangements with any company dance vision will be deemed to be the subscriber of such telephone numbers email addresses and websites with full authority to instruct the applicable company as to the use and disposition of listings and numbers and other contact information. sub franchisor agrees to release indemnify and hold such companies harmless from any damage or loss on account of following dance vision instructions. if sub franchisor is required by statute sub franchisor will promptly upon the execution of this agreement file with applicable governmental agencies or offices a notice of sub franchisor intent to conduct business under the assumed name dance vision promptly upon the termination of this agreement for any reason whatsoever sub franchisor will execute and file such documents as may be necessary to revoke or terminate such assumed name registration. if sub franchisor fails to promptly execute and file documents necessary to effectively revoke and terminate assumed name registrations sub franchisor irrevocably appoints dance vision as attorney in fact to do so on behalf of sub franchisor. section confidential manuals information and materials. in the manuals dance vision provides templates for various forms and documents but it is sub franchisor responsibility to confirm the utility legality validity completeness and applicability of these forms and documents in the sub franchise territory. sub franchisor must to report to dance vision any problems with or changes to be made to them. sub franchisor may at any time propose in english revisions to dance vision in the professional guide for use in the sub franchise territory based upon the laws customs tastes and business practices in the sub franchise territory and based on sub franchisor consultation with dance vision. revisions will be subject to dance vision approval which approval will not be unreasonably withheld. sub franchisor agrees at its expense to adopt the manuals for use in the sub franchise territory and to translate the manuals into the relevant languages of the sub franchise territory. before using its adaptations of the manuals sub franchisor will deliver a copy to dance vision for review and approval including english translations as necessary. if sub franchisor performs any translations of the manuals or any other of dance vision materials sub franchisor assigns to dance vision its economic rights and assigns to dance vision and otherwise waives its moral and legal rights generally with respect to copyright in the translation. sub franchisor will require its franchisees and third party translators to similarly assign and waive in favor of dance vision. sub franchisor will operate and will require its franchisees to operate in strict compliance with the manuals it will provide to its franchisees. provided however that sub franchisor will not be required to comply with any requirements of the manuals that would violate any requirement of sub franchise territory law. the subject matter of the manuals may include matters relating to the standard operation of the dance vision system and dance vision business dance studio and dance competition procedures and standards accounting and record keeping methods reporting requirements inventory requirements hours of operation supplier duties advertising and marketing and related information and materials. the term manuals will include any amendments or additions to them whether created by dance vision or by sub franchisor and all dance vision dance studio and dance competition bulletins notices and memoranda which prescribe standard methods or techniques of operation and which dance dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub vision may from time to time deliver to sub franchisor. the manuals are and will remain the sole property of dance vision and dance vision retains all rights including goodwill and copyrights. dance vision retains the right to reasonably modify the manuals from time to time in good faith as it deems to be in the best interest of the dance vision business. this will be done in accordance with the laws customs and market characteristics in the sub franchise territory. modifications will become effective and binding on sub franchisor days after notice is delivered to sub franchisor provided that the modifications do not violate any requirement of sub franchise territory law. the professional guide and all copyrights for it and the manuals are the property of dance vision. upon termination or expiration of this agreement regardless of the reason for termination or expiration sub franchisor will return to dance vision the professional guide and all copies in sub franchisor custody control or possession. section confidential information. during the term of this agreement and at any time after it expires or is terminated sub franchisor will not communicate divulge or use for the benefit of any other person partnership association or corporation any confidential information whether received orally or in writing including trade secrets knowledge or know how concerning the system and dance vision dance studios dance competitions products including curricula compositions formulas standards and specifications for supply dance studio and dance competition operations and marketing used in connection with the system dance vision standard accounting and record keeping programs the professional guide and other manuals and operation of the dance vision business collectively confidential information. sub franchisor will divulge confidential information only to its employees who must have access to it in order to operate the dance vision business and then only if the employees first sign an appropriate nondisclosure agreement approved in advance by dance vision. sub franchisor will ensure that all product suppliers and franchisees and their employees hold all confidential information strictly confidential to be used only pursuant to the dance vision business. sub franchisor will pursue all reasonably available legal and business alternatives available to enforce its obligations under this section against any third parties receiving or obtaining confidential information. sub franchisor will indemnify and hold dance vision harmless from any damages costs and expenses incurred by dance vision because of any unauthorized dissemination of confidential information by sub franchisor its employees product suppliers or franchisees. dance vision agrees that it will not disclose material and relevant information obtained from sub franchisor in connection with this agreement that is labeled confidential without the prior written consent of sub franchisor. sub franchisor will promptly notify dance vision of any unauthorized use of the confidential information any challenge to the validity of the confidential information or any challenge to dance vision ownership of or sub franchisor right to use the confidential information. sub franchisor agrees that dance vision has the right to direct and control any administrative proceeding or litigation involving the confidential information including any settlement. dance vision agrees to consult with and keep sub franchisor informed of the status of any proceeding. dance vision has the right but not the obligation to take action against uses by others that may constitute infringement of the confidential information. if dance vision declines to take action against uses by others that may constitute infringement of the confidential information after having been requested to do so by sub franchisor sub franchisor may take the action. each party agrees to execute all documents and to do any acts in the opinion of counsel necessary to carry out the legal action including becoming a nominal party to the action. dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub. the parties mutually agree that their respective business strategies are proprietary and confidential. these strategies will not be disclosed to any third person or entity without the permission of the parties. section accounting and records. sub franchisor will keep on file a copy of the following forms for each franchise and franchisee in the sub franchise territory a summary of the information contained on application forms weekly and other reports required by dance vision inventory sheets sales and purchase records franchise fee payment records and all other accounting records. sub franchisor will transmit to dance vision at the request of dance vision a summary in english of this information and any other information maintained by or reasonably available to sub franchisor as dance vision may reasonably request from time to time whether in writing or digital. sub franchisor will submit in english weekly reports of business it conducts on forms approved by dance vision. sub franchisor will establish and maintain and require its franchisees to establish and maintain account books business records and tax returns and records according to the usual and customary business practices for bookkeeping in the sub franchise territory. upon request sub franchisor will promptly translate any or all of these into english at sub franchisor expense. all records will be retained by sub franchisor and its franchisees for a minimum period of ten years or the longer period as required by relevant local laws. sub franchisor will provide to dance vision within days after the end of each calendar quarter an unaudited unless audited is otherwise available income statement and balance sheet of the division of sub franchisor operating dance vision businesses in the sub franchise territory for the preceding calendar quarter which sub franchisor prepares for its own management indicating gross receipts from all dance vision franchises in the sub franchise territory. these must be prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the sub franchise territory. within days of its fiscal year end sub franchisor annual unaudited unless audited statements are otherwise available financial statements and within days after filing with the proper tax authorities on a timely basis its tax returns. these will include detailed information regarding the dance vision business in english for the preceding fiscal year which has been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the sub franchise territory and as presented to sub franchisor shareholders. within days of the fiscal year end of each franchisee an unaudited unless audited statements are otherwise available balance sheet and income statement of each franchisee for the franchisee preceding fiscal year. at least days prior to the end of each year of this agreement a detailed annual marketing plan for the sub franchise territory including mutually agreed plan elements. within days after the end of each calendar quarter a report on the status of all current marketing activities and plans for the sub franchise territory under mutually agreed reporting standards. sub franchisor will allow dance vision representatives or agents to enter sub franchisor and the franchises business premises during business hours upon reasonable notice to dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub examine and audit dance vision business operations and inspect all related franchise premises and select products and supplies for test and evaluation related to quality control and performance standards and compliance with this agreement inspect the nature and quality of services rendered and interview personnel and customers and suppliers observe the manner and method of sub franchisor and each franchisee operation of the franchises for any consecutive or intermittent periods deemed necessary or appropriate inspect and copy books and records and any other franchise information including those referred to in section. above. an officer manager or principal of sub franchisor and a representative of sub franchisor accounting firm may be present at the commencement of any inspection or audit of a franchise. if an audit or investigation discloses a deficiency in sub franchisor payments to dance vision in an amount exceeding percent of the amount due or discloses sub franchisor or its franchisees are selling or offering for sale services or products not approved by dance vision in writing then sub franchisor will bear and pay to dance vision the reasonable expenses of dance vision audit or investigation including legal and accounting fees travel and living expenses and salary or compensation of employees auditors or representatives of dance vision participating in the investigation. sub franchisor obligation to bear these expenses will not affect any other right dance vision may have arising out of the breach of this agreement. sub franchisor will also be required to pay late payment penalties and interest on any underpayments from and after they initially became due as described in section above. section advertising. sub franchisor will use its best efforts to promote the dance vision business in the sub franchise territory. sub franchisor will conduct advertising as it deems necessary and appropriate. dance vision will provide to sub franchisor at least one copy and further copies at sub franchisor request and expense of all advertisements and publications issued by dance vision. sub franchisor will bear all costs of adapting and producing the advertising for use in the sub franchise territory. sub franchisor will not use and will use its best efforts to ensure that no franchisee uses any advertising provided under this section which uses the photograph likeness or name of any individual or personality without the prior express written consent of dance vision. dance vision and sub franchisor acknowledge and agree that any prices contained in the materials are suggestions or recommendations only and sub franchisor and franchisees are not required to abide by any suggested or recommended prices. sub franchisor will and will use its best efforts to ensure that franchisees will avoid in every way deceptive misleading or unethical advertising. sub franchisor will display the marks in a manner authorized by dance vision. neither sub franchisor nor its franchisees will use any promotional or advertising materials produced by any party other than dance vision or provided by dance vision and modified by sub franchisor without first obtaining dance vision reasonable prior written consent. sub franchisor will manage a regional advertising fund in the sub franchise territory. franchisees will be required pursuant to the franchise agreements they execute to contribute to the regional advertising fund an amount equal to not less than percent of the gross revenues they generate. sub franchisor will make the same percent or greater contribution to the regional advertising fund for any dance studios or dance competitions it operates calculated on the same basis as franchisees dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub are required to contribute. sub franchisor will not commingle the regional advertising fund with its other funds and accounts. the regional advertising fund will be administered by sub franchisor and will be used for regional advertising purchases local advertising purchases for franchisees who do not benefit from regional programs. preparation and distribution of camera ready advertising copy scripts and broadcast ready advertising signs posters brochures banners and other point of sale promotional materials for use by franchisees in their local advertising professional advertising and public relations assistance other advertising and promotional activities to increase demand for dance vision products and services in the sub franchise territory. sub franchisor will deliver to dance vision an annual accounting of the regional marketing fund and of sub franchisor other advertising and promotional contributions received and expenditures made and remaining balances within days after the end of each calendar year. this accounting will be in the form and have the format approved by dance vision. sub franchisor specifically acknowledges and agrees that any web site and any social media will be deemed advertising under this agreement and will be subject to among other things dance vision approval. as used in this agreement the term web site and social media means interactive electronic documents and processes contained in a network of computers or communications devises linked by communications software that sub franchisor operates or authorizes others to operate and that refers to the franchised business proprietary marks or dance vision. the term web site includes but is not limited to internet and world wide web home pages. in connection to any web site and social media sub franchisor agrees to the following dance vision will allow sub franchisor to establish a web page and social media as part of dance vision web site and social media. sub franchisor will not establish or use the web page and social media without dance vision prior written approval. before establishing the web page and social media sub franchisor will submit to dance vision a sample of the web page format and social media information in the form and manner dance vision may reasonably require. in addition to any other applicable requirements sub franchisor will comply with dance vision standards and specifications for web sites and social media as prescribed by dance vision from time to time in the operations manual or otherwise in writing or on a franchisee forum intranet system. if sub franchisor proposes any material revision to the web page and social media or any of the information contained in the web site and social media sub franchisor will submit the revision to dance vision for prior written approval. sub franchisor will use only approved key words meta tags and titles pertaining to the dance instruction and competition industries. dance vision will mail or respond via facsimile approved key words meta tags and titles upon sub franchisor request by mail or facsimile. subject to the terms of use on its web site and social media dance vision may gather develop and use in any lawful manner information about any visitor to the web site and social media including but not limited to any customers franchisees or prospective franchisees of sub franchisor regardless of whether they dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub were referred to sub franchisor via the web site social media or were otherwise in contact with sub franchisor. if dance vision establishes an intranet or comparable on line facility sub franchisor must utilize it in the manner required by dance vision. sub franchisor understands and agrees that dance vision may elect to provide certain assistance deliver information and materials or otherwise communicate with sub franchisor via the intranet. sub franchisor at its sole expense will maintain and update as needed all computer system requirements and services necessary to access the intranet in the manner required by dance vision. training and training materials may be delivered in the formats or media of dance vision choosing including but not limited to course books or training exercises on paper video cd rom or other electronic format via web cast and social media or an intranet. sub franchisor will participate in the training and shall be solely responsible for the cost of doing so including costs of computer equipment and services needed to participate. the operations manual may be delivered to sub franchisor by hard paper copy computer diskette cd rom via an intranet or other downloading mechanism to sub franchisor computer or via another medium chosen at the discretion of dance vision. section insurance. sub franchisor will at its expense obtain and maintain in force and pay the premiums for the insurance reasonably necessary and appropriate to insure sub franchisor and dance vision against liabilities arising in the sub franchise territory covering risks customarily insured against by persons carrying on activities in the sub franchise territory similar to the activities of sub franchisor. this will be done in amounts dance vision determines necessary in good faith. sub franchisor will ensure that all dance vision franchises are covered by appropriate insurance. sub franchisor will furnish to dance vision a certified copy or certificate with respect to each policy obtained by sub franchisor and by its franchisees to evidence coverage and naming dance vision as an additional named insured or other equivalent designation under standard practices in the sub franchise territory. dance vision may require sub franchisor to increase or modify its insurance coverage pursuant to regular business practice and prudent insurance customs in the sub franchise territory. maintenance of the insurance required under this section will not relieve sub franchisor of the obligations of indemnification contained in this agreement. during the term of this agreement sub franchisor will obtain this insurance and keep it in force by advance payment of premium. the insurance will include as appropriate for the sub franchise territory fire and extended coverage vandalism malicious mischief general liability food borne illness employer liability abuse and molestation and products liability insurance. this insurance will be in an amount sufficient to replace sub franchisor offices and personal property upon loss or damage. this insurance will be written by an insurance company satisfactory to dance vision in accordance with its standards and specifications in the manuals. subject to insurance custom in the sub franchise territory the insurance will include at a minimum if available in the sub franchise territory the following upon commencement of franchise operations and during the term of this agreement obtain and keep in force by advance payment of premium appropriate fire and extended coverage vandalism malicious mischief general liability products liability insurance. this insurance will be in an amount sufficient to replace the real property cover business activities on any premises where franchise activities and dance instruction are provided and cover personal property upon loss or damage. this insurance will be written by an insurance company satisfactory to dance vision in accordance with our standards and specifications in the professional guide. the insurance will include at a minimum the following. comprehensive general liability insurance including products liability completed operations property damage contractual liability independent contractors liability owned and non owned automobile coverage abuse molestation advertising injury fire damage medical expenses dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub and personal injury coverage with a combined single limit of at least including umbrella coverage with a general aggregate amount of no less than. workers compensation and employer liability insurance and other insurance required by statute or rule of the jurisdiction in which the franchise is located and operated. business interruption and lost profit insurance. employer practice liability insurance. comprehensive crime and blanket employee dishonesty insurance in an amount of not less than. all risk property insurance including theft and flood coverage when applicable written at replacement cost value covering buildings improvements furniture fixtures equipment and inventory. coverage will be written in a value which will cover not less than eighty percent of the replacement cost of the building and one hundred percent of the replacement cost of the contents of the building. cyber security insurance all insurance policies will contain a blanket waiver of the insurer rights of subrogation in respect of or against dance vision franchise international incorporated and its officers agents employees and representatives and will not contain any insured vs. insured exclusion clause but will contain a severability clause providing that each policy will be treated as though a separate insurance policy had been issued to each named insured. sub franchisor will promptly report all claims or potential claims against sub franchisor the franchise business operations or dance vision in writing when sub franchisor becomes aware of them. sub franchisor will give immediate written notice to dance vision of any claims or potential claims sub franchisor makes to its insurers. nothing contained in this agreement will be construed as a representation or warranty by dance vision that the insurance coverage specified will insure against all insurable risks or amounts of loss which may or can arise out of or in connection with the operation of the franchise business. it is sub franchisor sole responsibility to ensure that adequate insurance coverage is obtained. the insurance will insure dance vision sub franchisor and their respective subsidiaries owners officers directors partners members employees servants and agents against any loss liability products liability personal injury death or property damage that may accrue due to sub franchisor operations under this agreement and the operations of the franchisees. the insurance will not be limited in any way because of any insurance dance vision maintains. the insurance will not be subject to cancellation except upon thirty days written notice to dance vision. certificates of these insurance policies will be kept on deposit with dance vision. maintenance of the required insurance will not diminish sub franchisor liability to dance vision under the indemnities contained in this agreement. dance vision may require sub franchisor or the franchisees to increase the minimum limits of coverage to keep pace with regular business practice and prudent insurance custom in the sub franchise territory. if sub franchisor fails to comply with any of the requirements of this subsection dance vision may but is not obligated to purchase insurance at sub franchisor expense to protect dance vision interests. this insurance may but need not also protect sub franchisor interest. the coverage dance vision obtains might not pay any claim sub franchisor makes or any claim made against sub franchisor. sub franchisor may later cancel the insurance dance vision obtains by providing evidence that sub franchisor has obtained proper coverage elsewhere. sub franchisor is responsible for the cost of any insurance purchased by dance vision pursuant to this paragraph. this coverage may be considerably more expensive than insurance sub franchisor can obtain on sub franchisor own and might not satisfy sub franchisor needs. sub franchisor will pay dance vision upon demand the premium cost of this insurance with a late payment charge if applicable on the unpaid balance at the rates established in this agreement. dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub section transfer of interest. dance vision may at any time sell assign transfer convey or give away any right or obligation under this agreement. any successor to dance vision will be bound to the terms of this agreement and sub franchisor will look to that successor and not to dance vision for satisfaction of any performance under this agreement. specifically dance vision may sell its assets the marks or the system outright to a third party may go public may engage in a placement of some or all of its securities may merge acquire other entities or be acquired by other entities or may undertake a refinancing recapitalization re organization leveraged buyout or other economic or financial restructuring. as for any or all of these sales assignments and dispositions sub franchisor waives any claims demands or damages arising from or related to the loss of the marks or any variation of them or the loss of association with or identification as part of the dance vision franchise system. dance vision will not be required to remain in any particular form of business or to offer products whether or not bearing the marks. sub franchisor understands and acknowledges that the rights and duties set forth in this agreement are personal to sub franchisor and that dance vision has granted this license in reliance on the business skill financial capacity and personal character of sub franchisor owners and principals. accordingly neither sub franchisor nor any immediate or remote successor to any part of sub franchisor interest in this agreement nor any individual partnership corporation or other legal entity which directly or indirectly owns or controls sub franchisor will sell assign transfer convey encumber dilute subdivide devise or give away by operation of law or otherwise either voluntarily or involuntarily any direct or indirect interest in this agreement or in sub franchisor without the prior written consent of dance vision. dance vision consent will not be unreasonably withheld provided sub franchisor has opened and is operating at least one dance vision franchise in the sub franchise territory. sub franchisor is in full and complete compliance with this agreement and has timely paid all sums owed to dance vision. the proposed transferees including their owners officers and directors meet dance vision then current standards for sub franchisors including standards for quality of character financial capacity and experience and agree to execute dance vision then current form of sub franchise agreement including guarantees and supporting documents with the then current fee schedules advertising requirements and performance standards which may differ materially from the fee schedules advertising requirements and performance standards set forth in this agreement. the new agreement will be for the remaining unexpired term and renewal of this agreement and under the development schedule of this agreement unless otherwise agreed. sub franchisor or the transferees pay to dance vision a transfer fee equal to percent of the sub franchise fee set forth above. the transfer fee will be paid up front and will be refunded if dance vision does not consent to the transfer. the proposed transferees attend and successfully pass the training programs then required by dance vision of new or renewing sub franchisors. the proposed transferees will pay for their travel lodging compensation and food expenses related to this training. sub franchisor delivers the transfer and closing documents to dance vision at least days before the closing for review and comment and suggested revision. because dance vision will have a strong and vested interest in the financial viability and ongoing management abilities of the transferee dance vision need not consent to any transfer if dance vision reasonably believes the purchase price is excessive. dance vision need not consent to any transfer to a competitor of dance vision. dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub because dance vision will have a strong and vested interest in the financial viability and ongoing management abilities of the transferee dance vision will require a review of transferee operational and business plans demonstrating that the transferee business operations will work on a cash flow and financial basis in light of sub franchisor operational history. the required transfer procedures and policies to affect the transfer are contained in the operations manual. dance vision need not consent to a transfer to a competitor of dance vision. sub franchisor will remain bound by its covenants in this agreement to not disclose confidential information and to not compete with dance vision or dance vision franchisees. if dance vision obtains the transferee for sub franchisor will pay dance vision a commission on the gross transfer price excluding the price of real property of the greater of percent or the actual out of pocket costs incurred by dance vision and previously agreed to by sub franchisor. sub franchisor and its owners members partners officers and directors execute a general release in favor of dance vision. the release must be in a form dance vision prescribes following applicable law to release dance vision from any claims sub franchisor may have against dance vision. sub franchisor may transfer its rights and obligations under this agreement to a corporation or other entity in which sub franchisor continuously owns a majority of the issued and outstanding shares of each class of stock or other evidence of ownership. the entity must be newly organized with its activities confined exclusively to act as the sub franchisor under this agreement. the entity must contemporaneously agree in writing to be bound by the terms of this agreement. sub franchisor must contemporaneously agree in writing to guarantee the obligations of the entity and to remain personally liable in all respects under this agreement. sub franchisor and all of its owners must personally and unconditionally guarantee the obligations of the new entity and remain personally subject to and bound by all terms conditions restrictions and prohibitions contained in this agreement. in that capacity sub franchisor agrees that dance vision does not have to pursue any remedies dance vision may have against the entity but rather may proceed directly and primarily against sub franchisor and its owners with or without joining the entity as principal or as a named party in any proceeding. from time to time at dance vision request sub franchisor will provide to dance vision a current list of all its owners shareholders members directors officers partners and employees with a summary of their respective interests in sub franchisor. the following will apply in case of the death or incapacity if sub franchisor is an individual or of any general partner of sub franchisor if sub franchisor is a partnership or of any member or shareholder owning percent or more of sub franchisor if sub franchisor is a limited liability company or corporation or other entity. within days of the event the heirs beneficiaries devisees or legal representatives of that individual partner member or shareholder will apply to dance vision for the right to continue to operate under this agreement for the duration of the term of this agreement. the right to continue will be granted upon the fulfillment of all of the conditions set forth in section. above except that no transfer fee will be required. or transfer sub franchisor interest according to the provisions of section. if a proper and timely application for the right to continue to operate has been made and rejected the days within which to transfer will be computed from the date of rejection. for purposes of this subsection on an application for the right to continue to operate dance vision silence through the days following the event of death or incapacity will be deemed an acceptance made on the last day of the period. dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub if a suitable transferee purchaser is not found within days from the date of death or permanent incapacity dance vision may at dance vision sole option terminate this agreement and all rights licensed to sub franchisor under this agreement will immediately terminate and revert to dance vision. sub franchisor will give dance vision the right of first purchase before soliciting offers from a third party if sub franchisor chooses to sell sub franchisor business or its rights under this agreement. sub franchisor agrees to notify dance vision in writing if sub franchisor desires to sell or transfer any interest in sub franchisor or in sub franchisor franchised business. dance vision will elect to exercise dance vision option to purchase within business days after receipt of sub franchisor written notification. if dance vision offers sub franchisor an amount that sub franchisor does not agree to sub franchisor may try to sell to a third party subject to dance vision right of first refusal set forth below. sub franchisor is obligated before any transfer to a third party to comply with all criteria set forth in this agreement. if sub franchisor receives a bona fide offer from a third party acting at arm length to purchase its rights under this agreement a majority interest in ownership of sub franchisor or substantially all of the assets of the sub franchisor which offer is acceptable to sub franchisor or to sub franchisor owners dance vision will have the right to purchase at the bona fide price on the same terms and conditions as offered to sub franchisor. dance vision may substitute cash for any other form of consideration contained in the offer. dance vision credit will be deemed to be equal to the credit of any proposed purchaser. at its option dance vision may pay the entire purchase price at closing. within ten days after receipt by sub franchisor of an acceptable bona fide offer sub franchisor will notify dance vision in writing of the terms and conditions of the offer. dance vision may exercise this right to purchase within days after receipt of notice from sub franchisor. if the interest which is the subject of the offer involves less than all of the ownership interest then in its sole option dance vision right of first refusal will apply to the entire ownership interest. in such case the consideration to be received as set forth in the offer shall be divided by the percentage interest subject to the offer and the resulting quotient shall be the price to be paid for the entire ownership interest. terms and conditions for the purchase of the entire ownership interest shall be as similar to the terms and conditions set forth in the offer as practicable except for the substitute provisions noted above in this section. if dance vision does not accept the offer within days sub franchisor may make the proposed transfer to a third party. the transfer will not be at a lower price or on more favorable terms than disclosed to dance vision. any transfer will be subject to dance vision prior written permission described in this agreement. if the franchise is not transferred by sub franchisor within six months from the date it is offered to dance vision or if any material change is made in the terms of the proposed sale then sub franchisor must reoffer to transfer to dance vision before a transfer to a third party. section default and termination. automatic termination. sub franchisor will be in default under this agreement and this this agreement will terminate automatically and immediately without notice and without an opportunity to cure if sub franchisor becomes insolvent or makes a general assignment for the benefit of creditors if a petition in bankruptcy is filed by sub franchisor or a petition is filed against and not opposed by sub franchisor or if sub franchisor is adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub if a bill in equity or other proceeding for the appointment of a receiver of sub franchisor or other custodian for sub franchisor business or assets is filed and consented to by sub franchisor if a receiver or other custodian permanent or temporary of all or part of sub franchisor assets or property is appointed by any court of competent jurisdiction if proceedings for a composition with creditors under any state or federal law is instituted by or against sub franchisor if a material and substantial final judgment remains unsatisfied or of record for days or longer unless supersedeas bond is filed if sub franchisor is dissolved if execution is levied against material and substantial portions of sub franchisor business or property if suit to foreclose any material and substantial lien or mortgage is instituted against sub franchisor and not dismissed within days or if material and substantial portions of sub franchisor real or personal property is sold after levy by any sheriff marshal or constable. sub franchisor will be in default and dance vision at its option may terminate this agreement and all rights granted to sub franchisor without affording sub franchisor any opportunity to cure the default effective days from receipt of notice by sub franchisor with the termination being automatic upon expiration of the days unless otherwise agreed in writing or extended by dance vision upon the occurrence of any of the following events if sub franchisor without the prior written consent of dance vision ceases to carry on the dance vision business or takes any steps that could reasonably be considered likely to lead to the cessation. if any shareholder or principal of sub franchisor managing the dance vision business is convicted of a serious crime a crime involving moral turpitude or any other crime or offense that dance vision believes is reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect in the sub franchise territory on the system the marks and related goodwill. if sub franchisor or any partner or shareholder of sub franchisor attempts to transfer any rights or obligations under this agreement or any interest in sub franchisor to any third party without dance vision prior written consent. if sub franchisor fails to comply with the in term covenants in section below or fails to obtain and deliver the executed covenants which may be required under section. if sub franchisor discloses contrary to section or section the contents of the professional guide confidential information or other trade secret or confidential information provided to sub franchisor by dance vision. if sub franchisor knowingly maintains false books or records or submits or makes any false reports or statements to dance vision or fails to comply with the requirements in section. dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub if an imminent threat or danger to public health or safety results from sub franchisor dance studio and dance competition maintenance or operation activities in the sub franchise territory. if sub franchisor fails to obtain or maintain in force insurance pursuant to the provisions of section. if sub franchisor materially misuses or makes any unauthorized use of the marks in a way that materially impairs their goodwill or dance vision rights. if sub franchisor engages in any business or markets any service or product under a name or mark which in dance vision reasonable opinion is confusingly similar to the marks. if sub franchisor fails to comply with any requirement of this agreement after having corrected two deficiencies in performance of the same or any other requirement under this agreement within any month period. sub franchisor will be in default for any failure to comply substantially with any provision or covenant contained in this agreement or to carry out the terms of this agreement. except as provided in sections. and. above sub franchisor will have days after delivery of a written notice of default from dance vision within which to cure any default of any provision of this agreement and provide evidence of the remedy to dance vision. if the default is not cured within that time dance vision will have the option to terminate this agreement without further notice effective immediately upon delivery to sub franchisor of dance vision notice of termination for failure to cure. sub franchisor will have the right to terminate this agreement if sub franchisor is in substantial compliance with this agreement and dance vision does not substantially comply with any material provision or covenant and dance vision fails to cure that breach within days after receipt of written notice from sub franchisor. all notices of termination expiration or non renewal will be in writing and contain a statement of intent to terminate or not renew along with the reasons and effective date of the termination or non renewal or expiration. section obligations upon expiration or termination. upon the termination of this agreement sub franchisor immediately will cease to operate under this agreement. sub franchisor may not establish or operate a franchise or license any other party to establish or operate a franchise for which a franchise agreement has not been executed by sub franchisor at the time of termination. dance vision may elect to purchase from sub franchisor any inventory equipment and other physical assets in any franchise or operation of sub franchisor. no payment will be made for any goodwill or the going concern value of the franchise or operation. sub franchisor will immediately transfer to dance vision or its designee all of its rights and obligations as sub franchisor in each franchise agreement. sub franchisor will pay dance vision for all costs and expenses incurred by dance vision in transferring the rights and obligations and beginning to operate as the sub franchisor in the sub franchise territory. sub franchisor will require the franchisees to execute all documents reasonable required by dance vision to affect that transfer and make it effective with all the franchisees. dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub dance vision may establish and license others to establish dance vision franchises in the sub franchise territory subject to the territory rights provided under any franchise agreement which has been properly executed by sub franchisor approved by dance vision and transferred to dance vision or its designee. all rights of sub franchisor will immediately terminate. sub franchisor immediately will cease to use by advertising or otherwise directly or indirectly any part of the dance vision system withdraw from sub franchisor use the marks including the words dance vision or any other combination of words similar to or suggestive of the trade names trademarks service marks color schemes and patterns slogans designs signs and emblems of dance vision including all action necessary to immediately transfer or if appropriate terminate any registered user agreements and registrations related to sub franchisor use of the marks so as not to jeopardize or limit dance vision ownership and use of the marks. sub franchisor will authorize telephone internet email electronic network directory and listing entities to transfer all numbers addresses internet domain names locators directories and listings to dance vision or its designee and notify them of the termination of sub franchisor right to use the marks. sub franchisor authorizes the transfer of its telephone numbers and directory listings and internet addresses domain names and locators to dance vision or its designees. sub franchisor immediately will deliver at sub franchisor expense to dance vision or its duly authorized representative all copies of the professional guide and confidential information. sub franchisor will return to dance vision all records files instructions correspondence and materials in its possession or control related to the system. sub franchisor will give dance vision a complete and accurate summary of advertisers prospective franchisees customers and leads including their names addresses telephone numbers and related file records. sub franchisor will assist dance vision in every way possible to bring about a complete and effective transfer of its franchise business to dance vision or to its designees. sub franchisor immediately will pay all sums owing to dance vision and its subsidiaries and affiliates. sub franchisor will assign and transfer to dance vision or its designee all positive account balances in the regional advertising fund and will deliver to the regional advertising fund any sums due to it from sub franchisor including negative account balances sub franchisor has allowed to accrue on behalf of suppliers or franchisees. sub franchisor will pay to dance vision all damages costs and expenses including reasonable attorneys fees incurred by dance vision subsequent to the termination or expiration of this agreement to seek recovery of damages caused by any action of sub franchisor in violation of this agreement or to obtain injunctive relief for the enforcement of any portion of this agreement. termination or expiration of this agreement under any circumstances will not release or extinguish any debt obligation or liability of sub franchisor to dance vision. upon expiration of this agreement based upon completion of the initial or relevant renewal term sub franchisor may not establish a franchise or license any other party to establish or operate a franchise. dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub sub franchisor will have the right a to continue to act as sub franchisor. from month to month at the discretion of dance vision. subject to termination by either dance vision or sub franchisor upon not less than days prior written notice at any time and without cause. under franchise agreements with franchisees executed pursuant to this agreement during its term and. in compliance with the provisions of this agreement that relate to the existing franchises including provisions covering fee payments to dance vision restrictions on competition by sub franchisor and confidential information and to continue to operate franchises owned by sub franchisor pursuant to and under its existing franchise agreements with dance vision. upon the expiration of the final franchise agreement executed pursuant to this agreement all rights under this section will cease and sub franchisor will comply with terms and conditions of section. above. section covenants. sub franchisor will receive valuable specialized training and confidential information including without limitation information relating to the operational sales promotional and marketing methods and techniques of dance vision and the system. accordingly sub franchisor covenants that during the term of this agreement and any extension and for a period of months following termination or expiration of this agreement except as otherwise approved in writing by dance vision neither sub franchisor nor its directors officers shareholders employees or any other person or entity controlled by or controlling sub franchisor will either directly or indirectly for itself or through on behalf of or in conjunction with any person persons association partnership or corporation a divert or attempt to divert any prospective franchisee or any business or customer of any dance vision franchise to any competitor by direct or indirect inducement or otherwise or do or perform directly or indirectly any other act injurious or prejudicial to the goodwill associated with the marks the system and the dance vision business. own maintain advise help invest in make loans to be employed by operate with be a director of engage in or have any interest in any business that offers dance studio or dance competition services except as otherwise agreed by dance vision in advance in writing. sub franchisor will assure that it and its owners shareholders partners directors officers employees and agents and the members of their immediate families or households who have actual knowledge of or access to the systems will not directly or indirectly participate as an owner shareholder director partner officer employee consultant franchisor franchisee distributor advisor or agent or serve in any dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub other capacity in any business engaged directly or indirectly in the offer sale rental internet dissemination or promotion of dance studios and dance competitions and any business that offers products or services that are essentially the same as or substantially similar to the products and services that are part of the system. this covenant applies worldwide during the term of this agreement and within the sub franchise territory within a mile radius of the sub franchise territory and within the united states of america following its expiration or termination. sub franchisor will pay to dance vision for each and any violation of the forgoing covenants as liquidated damages in addition to all other available remedies. either party may obtain in any court of competent jurisdiction specific performance and injunctive relief to restrain a violation by the other party of any term or covenant of this agreement. nothing contained in this agreement will bar either party to obtain specific performance of the provisions of this agreement and injunctive relief against threatened conduct that will cause loss or damages under customary equity rules including applicable rules for obtaining restraining orders and preliminary injunctions. there is unique value and secondary meaning attached to the system the marks and dance vision standards of operation and trade practices. any noncompliance with the terms of this agreement or any unauthorized or improper use of the system or the marks will cause irreparable damage to dance vision and dance vision franchisees. if sub franchisor engages in any unauthorized or improper use during or after the period of this agreement dance vision will be entitled to both permanent and temporary injunctive relief from any court of competent jurisdiction without bond in addition to any other remedies prescribed by law. no right or remedy conferred upon either party is exclusive of any other right or remedy in this agreement or provided by law or equity. each will be cumulative of every other right or remedy. dance vision may employ legal counsel or incur other expense to collect or enforce sub franchisor obligations or to defend against any claim demand action or proceeding because of sub franchisor failure to perform its obligations. legal action may be filed by or against dance vision and that action or the settlement of it may establish sub franchisor breach of this agreement. if either event occurs dance vision may recover the amount of its reasonable attorney fees and all other expenses dance vision incur in collecting or enforcing that obligation or in defending against that claim demand action or proceeding. the prevailing party in any arbitration insolvency proceeding bankruptcy proceeding suit or action to enforce this agreement will recover its arbitration proceeding and court costs and reasonable attorney fees. these will be set by the arbitration proceeding or court including costs and attorney fees on appeal or review from the arbitration proceeding suit or action. prevailing party means the party who recovers the greater relief in the proceeding. dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub sub franchisor agrees that the existence of any claims it may have will not constitute a defense to the enforcement by dance vision of any of the confidentiality requirements and covenants not to compete described in this agreement. sub franchisor acknowledges that any violation of the confidentiality requirements and covenants not to compete would result in irreparable injury to dance vision for which no adequate remedy at law may be available and accordingly consents to the issuance of an injunction prohibiting any conduct by sub franchisor in violation of the terms of the covenants not to compete. each of the confidentiality requirements and covenants not to compete described in this agreement will be constructed as independent of any other covenant or provision. if all parts or any portion of any covenant in this agreement is held unreasonable or unenforceable by a court or agency having valid jurisdiction in an union appealed final decision to which dance vision is a party sub franchisor expressly agrees to be bound by any lesser covenant subsumed within the terms of that covenant that imposes the maximum duty permitted by law as if the resulting covenant were separately stated in this agreement. each of the covenants described in this agreement is a separate and independent covenant in each political jurisdiction of the sub franchise territory. to the extent that any covenant may be determined to be judicially unenforceable in any political jurisdiction that covenant will not be affected with respect to any other jurisdiction. if for any reason any provision set forth in this section exceeds any lawful scope or limit as to duration geographic coverage or otherwise it is agreed that the provision will nevertheless be binding to the full scope or limit allowed by law or by a court of law. the duration geographic coverage and scope allowable by law or court of law shall apply to this agreement. sections. will not prevent ownership by sub franchisor of less than a five percent beneficial interest in the outstanding equity securities of any publicly held corporation. publicly held corporation for purposes of this agreement is a corporation whose shares are traded on any recognized national or regional securities exchange or national securities association. violation by sub franchisor of the terms of this section will result in irreparable injury to dance vision for which no adequate remedy at law may be available. sub franchisor accordingly consents to the issuance of and agrees to pay all court costs and reasonable attorneys fees incurred by dance vision in obtaining an injunction prohibiting any conduct by sub franchisor in violation of this section. the issuance of an injunction will be in addition to any and all rights and remedies that dance vision may have. section ownership of improvements. the parties will exert their best efforts to improve the dance vision business. dance vision may use any new products or systems developed by sub franchisor relating to the dance vision business outside the sub franchise territory. sub franchisor will have the right to use any improvements made by dance vision according to the terms of this agreement. sub franchisor may not use any improvements made by sub franchisor of the system including products services procedures methods promotions advertising patents trademarks designs or copyrights without first obtaining dance vision written authorization. dance vision and sub franchisor acknowledge and agree that dance vision will have complete ownership rights in all improvements made by sub franchisor sub franchisor franchisees and dance vision and sub franchisor will execute any necessary instruments to realize dance vision ownership. dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub section compliance with laws taxes. in connection with all business operations including solicitation for and servicing of franchisees to operate dance studios and dance competitions in the sub franchise territory sub franchisor will comply with and conduct all franchise promotion advertising and other activities in accordance with the federal trade commission rule on franchising the ftc rule all state laws relating to the offer and sale and operation and supervision of franchises and business opportunities and all other applicable laws rules policies and procedures in effect from time to time. sub franchisor will pay for and assist dance vision to continuously a prepare and update the dance vision franchise disclosure document to reflect information about sub franchisor sub franchisor activities and the sub franchise territory and register and maintain proper registrations for sub franchisor in all states and jurisdictions where registration is or will be required. this may include registration in some states as a sub franchisor or as a franchise broker. sub franchisor will comply with all of the provisions of all other applicable federal state or local statutes rules or ordinances. sub franchisor will not file or use any disclosure document prospectuses or other disclosure documents whether related to franchising securities offerings or other matters without first having obtained dance vision written consent which dance vision may grant or withhold in its sole discretion. this consent will not constitute a warranty or representation by dance vision that any document sub franchisor prepares complies with any applicable law or that the disclosures made by sub franchisor are truthful and accurate nor will dance vision review or consent in any way waive reduce or impair its right to be indemnified by sub franchisor pursuant to this agreement. sub franchisor agrees to comply and require all franchisees to comply with all national and local laws ordinances and regulations including medical and health laws and regulations abuse and molestation occupational and food hazards workers compensation insurance unemployment insurance employers practice and the. foreign corrupt practices act anti terrorist acts and patriot act and all similar laws and regulations pertaining to the operation of the dance vision business. sub franchisor will ensure that all materials and products provided by dance vision its affiliates or its suppliers to sub franchisor or imported into the sub franchise territory pursuant to dance vision requirements will comply with all applicable laws and regulations in the sub franchise territory. sub franchisor will obtain at its cost all required governmental permits certificates approvals clearances and licenses and will promptly pay all applicable taxes related to the operation of the dance vision business. sub franchisor will obtain no right title or interest in the products or dance vision business by virtue of complying with this section. sub franchisor will indemnify and hold dance vision harmless from any damages costs and expenses resulting from sub franchisor failure to comply or ensure the compliance of its franchisees with the terms of this section. to comply with the us patriot act sub franchisor acknowledges that a neither sub franchisor nor any of sub franchisor officers or employees nor any of their respective spouses children and parents nor anyone who has an interest in or who will manage the franchise nor any of sub franchisor partners or affiliates i supports terrorism ii provides money or financial services to terrorists iii receives money or financial services from terrorists or institutions that support terrorists iv is engaged in terrorism or is on the current. government lists of persons and organizations that support terrorism as provided for by law such as the list of specially designated nationals and blocked persons under the united states of america united states of america usa or or patriot act usc section et seq. dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub neither sub franchisor nor any of these persons has engaged in or been convicted of fraud corruption bribery money laundering narcotics trafficking or other crimes and each is eligible under applicable. immigration laws to communicate with and travel to the united states to fulfill sub franchisor obligations under sub franchisor agreements with dance vision. liability for payment of taxes imposed by governmental or other authorities in the sub franchise territory will be as follows nonresident income taxes imposed on income paid to dance vision will be dance vision liability. sub franchisor agrees to remit to the sub franchise territory tax authorities on dance vision behalf withholding payments required by law and to provide to dance vision an official receipt for payment of the withholding taxes to the sub franchise territory governmental authorities. sub franchisor may deduct the amount of the payment made from payments owed to dance vision. all other taxes imposed on rendering of commercial services such as turnover taxes consumption taxes or sales taxes will be the liability and responsibility of sub franchisor without diminution of the payments to dance vision set forth in this agreement. sub franchisor will indemnify and hold dance vision harmless from any damages costs or expenses incurred by dance vision due to sub franchisor failure to properly withhold or pay any tax required by this section. the provisions of this agreement may state periods of notice less than those required by applicable law. they may provide for termination cancellation nonrenewal or the like other than according to applicable law. they will be extended or modified to comply with applicable law. section relationship of parties indemnification. sub franchisor and dance vision acknowledge and agree that they are completely separate entities. they are not in a fiduciary relationship. sub franchisor is not an agent legal representative joint venturer partner or employee of dance vision for any purpose whatsoever. sub franchisor will act as an independent contractor and is not authorized to make or to hold itself out to third parties as having the authority to make any contract agreement warranty representation or obligation for or on behalf of dance vision. sub franchisor will not take any action that could establish or give the appearance of an agency joint venture partnership or employment relationship between sub franchisor and dance vision. sub franchisor will contract all of its obligations in its own name and not in the name of dance vision. in the event of any loss or damage to sub franchisor arising out of or relating to the injury or death of any person resulting directly or indirectly from use of dance vision dance studio and dance competitions or any other products supplied by dance vision under the system or incurred by or imposed on sub franchisor in connection with any action suit claim demand or government investigation or inquiry in connection with dance vision dance studio and dance competitions or other products supplied by dance vision under the system and provided the loss or damage is adjudged to be the result of dance vision wrongful acts or omissions then dance vision will protect indemnify and hold harmless sub franchisor from and against any and all damages costs and other expenses of defending the same. except as described in section. above sub franchisor will be responsible for any and all loss or damage to dance vision arising out of or relating to sub franchisor operation under this agreement or arising out of the acts or omissions of sub franchisor or any of its agents servants or employees in connection with the rendering of services by sub franchisor. sub franchisor is exclusively responsible for all claims for damaged property or for injury or death of any person directly or indirectly resulting from sub franchisor acts and omissions other than for loss or damage which has been caused by dance vision its agents servants or employees. except as described in section. if dance vision dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub is made or becomes a party to any action suit claim demand or government investigation or inquiry by reason of this agreement or any act or omission of sub franchisor its employees servants or agents or in the operation under this agreement other than that caused by the act or omission of dance vision its agents servants or employees then sub franchisor will protect indemnify and hold harmless dance vision its shareholders directors officers employees and agents from and against any and all claims demands liabilities damages costs and expenses. this will include dance vision reasonable attorney fees costs and other expenses of defending the same whether the result of legal action suit claim demand or government investigation or inquiry. sub franchisor will notify dance vision in writing within five days of the commencement of any action proceeding or suit and of the issuance of any order writings injunction award or decree of any court agency or governmental body that may adversely affect the operation or financial condition of sub franchisor its franchisees or its operations under this agreement. sub franchisor will indemnify and hold dance vision harmless from all fines suits proceedings claims demands actions losses attorney fees and damages arising out of or connected with the dance vision business and the franchisees and the business activities acts or omissions of sub franchisor and sub franchisor employees and agents including those brought against sub franchisor and dance vision jointly alleging that sub franchisor and dance vision were negligent or otherwise liable. dance vision will not be liable to sub franchisor or to any other person because of sub franchisor act omission neglect or breach. if it is established that both sub franchisor and dance vision were negligent or otherwise liable sub franchisor and dance vision will contribute to the relevant award based upon the adjudicated and assigned respective decree of fault. dance vision will not be liable to sub franchisor or to any other person because of sub franchisor act omission neglect or breach. sub franchisor will indemnify dance vision for any loss cost or expense including attorneys fees that may be sustained by dance vision because of the acts or omissions of sub franchisor vendors or suppliers or franchisees. sub franchisor will defend dance vision at sub franchisor own expense in any legal or administrative proceeding subject to this subsection. the defense will be conducted by attorneys dance vision approves. dance vision approval will not be unreasonably withheld. sub franchisor will immediately pay and discharge any liability rendered against dance vision in any proceeding including any settlement that dance vision approves in writing. sub franchisor will not settle any claim against dance vision without dance vision prior written approval. in dance vision sole discretion and upon prior written notice to sub franchisor dance vision may settle or defend any claims against dance vision at sub franchisor expense including attorney fees that dance vision pays or incurs in settling or defending. promptly upon demand sub franchisor will reimburse dance vision for any and all legal and other expenses dance vision reasonably incur in investigating preparing defending settling compromising or paying any settlement or claim including monies that dance vision pays or incurs in settling or defending such proceeding. all references in this agreement that provide that sub franchisor will indemnify or defend dance vision or that sub franchisor will name dance vision under any insurance policy will also mean that dance vision affiliates directors officers and employees will be also and equally indemnified defended or named. upon reasonable demand each party will immediately deliver to the other copies of the original files created by or otherwise in that party possession related to the development promotion negotiation and sale of dance vision franchises and the selection and establishment of franchise studios in the sub franchise territory. each party has an ongoing vested interest in these files and documents to allow the other party to establish the reasonableness and legality of its acts and activities. sub franchisor agrees to use these files and documents for that purpose and for the purpose of pursuing dance vision franchise sales and for no other purpose or reason. the parties agree to allow each other reasonable access to and the right to photocopy all such files and documents at reasonable times to accomplish these purposes. if sub franchisor consists of more than one person or entity or a combination thereof the obligations and liabilities of each such person or entity to dance vision are joint and several. dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub. by executing this agreement sub franchisor on behalf of sub franchisor and its heirs legal representatives successors and assigns and each assignee of this agreement forever release and discharge dance vision and dance vision past and present employees agents members area developers officers and directors including any parent subsidiary and affiliated entities their respective past and present employees agents members officers and directors from any and all claims relating to or arising out of any franchise agreement between the parties executed prior to the date of this agreement and all other prior claims relating to any prior dealings between any of the parties apart from those specifically related to this agreement. however this release does not apply to any claim sub franchisor may have arising from representations in dance vision sub franchise franchise disclosure document or its exhibits or amendments. section government approval effective date. this agreement is executed subject to all necessary governmental approvals under the applicable laws of the sub franchise territory and of the united states of america. if at any time upon execution of this agreement or during the term of this agreement any government or agency should require directly or indirectly alteration or modification of any term or condition of this agreement or of the performance of the parties the parties agree to use their best efforts to comply with the request. should however either of the parties consider this request to be material and adverse to it then the party may terminate this agreement by giving written notice to this effect to the other party. dance vision and its representatives will have the right to participate in the prosecution of all required approvals. sub franchisor agrees to use due diligence and its best efforts to obtain the approvals promptly and to report to dance vision on the progress of its efforts and to provide copies of all related documents to dance vision. the effective date of this agreement will be the date first expressed above which may be different than the date either of the parties execute it. section miscellaneous. non waiver. whether by forbearance or neglect no failure of dance vision to insist upon sub franchisor strict compliance with the terms of this agreement and no custom or practice of the parties at variance with the terms of this agreement will constitute a waiver. either party may by written instrument unilaterally waive or reduce any obligation of or restriction upon the other party effective upon delivery of the written notice or upon the effective date stated in the notice of waiver. any waiver granted by dance vision will not prejudice any other rights dance vision may have and will be subject to continuing review by dance vision. any waiver by dance vision may be revoked in dance vision sole discretion at any time and for any reason effective upon delivery to sub franchisor of ten days prior written notice of revocation. notices. any and all notices required or permitted under this agreement will be in writing in the english language and will be delivered by any means which will provide evidence of the date received to the respective parties at the following addresses unless and until a different address has been designated by written notice to the other party notices to dance vision dance vision franchise international incorporated west sahara avenue suite las vegas nevada notices to sub franchisor sub franchisor company dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub the original copy of any notice sent digitally will on the date of the transmission also be sent by a means in compliance with this section. any notice will be deemed to have been given at the date and time it is received is refused or delivery is made impossible by the intended recipient. mediation arbitration and litigation. from time to time there may be controversy about this agreement its interpretation or performance or breach by the parties. if a dispute arises between the parties the parties agree to participate in at least hours of mediation in accordance with the mediation procedures of the american arbitration association or of any similar organization that specializes in the mediation of international commercial business disputes. the parties agree to equally share the costs of mediation. mediation may be specifically enforced by either party. this agreement to mediate will survive termination or expiration of this agreement. based upon the mutual consent of the parties and in order to resolve choice of law issues between them the parties agree that the laws of england will be used to interpret and enforce this agreement. if the controversy is not resolved through mediation it will be resolved by arbitration before an arbitrator selected by and mutually agreed upon by the parties under the commercial dispute process and rules of the american arbitration association and its supplementary procedures for international commercial arbitration the international commercial dispute processes and rules of the london court of international arbitration or its successor or a similar organization that specializes in the resolution of international commercial disputes. the arbitration will be conducted in the english language and will take place at the lcia headquarters in london england the american arbitration association office closest to dance vision headquarters. the arbitrator will have power and jurisdiction to decide the controversy or dispute solely according to the express provisions of this agreement. the arbitrator may not alter amend delete or add to the provisions of this agreement by implication or otherwise. in any arbitration the parties will be entitled to injunctive relief or specific performance of the obligations of the other. the arbitrator will determine the prevailing party for purposes of this section and may make a percentage award of reimbursable fees and expenses. the decision of the arbitrator made within its power or jurisdiction will be final and binding. the decision may be entered as a judgment in any court of law having jurisdiction. sub franchisor acknowledges that dance vision has appointed and intends to appoint many franchisees on terms and conditions similar to those set forth in this agreement. it mutually benefits those franchisees sub franchisor and dance vision if the terms and conditions of these license agreements are uniformly interpreted. this agreement is accepted by dance vision in the state of nevada and will be governed by the substantive laws of nevada without regard to nevada choice of law provisions. nevada laws will prevail except to the extent governed by the united states trademark act of lanham act. sections et seq. the. arbitration act and the federal law of arbitration then prevailing in the united states and except to the extent laws of the sub franchise territory require exclusive application of those laws. this choice of laws will not include and does not extend the scope of application of any nevada franchise or business opportunity laws except as they may otherwise apply pursuant to their terms and definitions. no franchise or business opportunity statute law or regulation of nevada or any other nation or state is intended to be made applicable to this agreement unless it would otherwise apply provided however the foregoing will not be construed as a waiver of any rights under any applicable franchise registration disclosure or relationship law of another nation or state or commonwealth. any portion of this agreement that requires enforcement in any other jurisdiction and is enforceable under the laws of that jurisdiction but not of nevada will be construed and enforced according to the laws of that jurisdiction. all issues or disagreements relating to this agreement will be mediated arbitrated tried heard and decided in las vegas nevada united states of america united states of america usa or or which the parties agree is the most convenient venue for these purposes. sub franchisor acknowledges and agrees that this location for venue is reasonable and the most beneficial to the needs of and best meets the interest of all of the members of the dance vision franchise system. if applicable law implies a covenant of good faith and fair dealing in this agreement the parties agree that covenant will not imply any rights or obligations that are inconsistent with a fair construction of the terms of this agreement. if applicable law shall imply such a covenant the parties acknowledge and agree that a this agreement and the relationship of the parties which is inherent from this agreement grants dance vision the discretion to make decisions take actions or dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub refrain from taking actions not inconsistent with dance vision explicit rights and obligations under this agreement that may favorably or adversely affect sub franchisor interests. dance vision will use its business judgment in exercising its discretion based on its assessment of its own interests and balancing those interests against the interests of the owners of other dance vision businesses generally including dance vision dance vision franchisees and parties related to dance vision and specifically without considering the individual interests of sub franchisor or any other particular franchisee. dance vision will have no liability to sub franchisor for the exercise of its discretion in this manner so long as dance vision discretion is not exercised in bad faith toward sub franchisor and. in the absence of bad faith no trier of fact in any judicial or arbitration proceeding will substitute its judgment for the business judgment dance vision exercises. if at any time during the term of this agreement sub franchisor consists of two or more persons whether acting in partnership or otherwise and whether or not all have signed this agreement the rights privileges and benefits granted to sub franchisor in this agreement may only be exercised and enjoyed jointly and sub franchisor obligations liabilities and responsibilities under this agreement will be joint and several obligations of each such person. force majeure. the failure of any party to perform under this agreement will be excused if the failure to perform is caused by a force majeure provided the party so affected will give the other party immediate written notice of the cause of nonperformance will use its best efforts to avoid or remove the cause and will continue performance under this agreement whenever the cause is removed. force majeure includes without limitation any event caused by or resulting from conditions that are beyond the reasonable control of a party whose performance is affected and occurring without the party fault or negligence. examples of events of force majeure include without limitation an act of god labor strike or other industrial disturbance revolution riot civil commotion acts of public enemies catastrophe failure of third party suppliers not under a party control transportation delay war insurrection epidemic or pandemic fire hurricane flood earthquake or other natural disaster adverse acts of any government materials or labor shortage failure of third party suppliers social unrest or upheaval economy fiscal emergency or crisis banking system delays or failure abnormal inflation or deflation delay or an act or failure to act of the other party accidental negligent or purposeful act or failure to act by a party or by any third person that materially damages or diminishes the value of the marks. dickey toxic tea et cetera entire agreement. this agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties and supersedes all prior negotiations commitments representations and undertakings of the parties with respect to its subject matter. there are no other or further agreements or understandings written or oral in effect between the parties relating to the subject matter. this agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of each party and will be binding upon and inure to their benefit and their heirs executors administrators successors and assigns subject to the prohibitions against assignment contained above. this agreement including the attached exhibits expresses the sole and complete understanding between the parties concerning the independent sub franchise relationship between the parties. this writing is the entire agreement between the parties and may not be modified or amended except by written agreement signed by the parties. the words this agreement include any such future modifications unless otherwise suggested by the context. this agreement contains all of the terms and conditions agreed upon by the parties concerning the subject matter of this agreement. no other agreements concerning the subject matter written or oral will be deemed to exist or to bind the parties. all prior agreements understandings dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub and representations are merged into this agreement and superseded by it. sub franchisor represents that there are no contemporaneous agreements or understandings between the parties relating to the subject matter of this agreement that are not contained in this agreement. no officer employee or agent of dance vision has any authority to make any representation or promise not contained in this agreement or in the dance vision franchise disclosure document for prospective franchisees required by applicable law. this agreement cannot be modified or changed except by written instrument signed by all of the parties. nothing in this agreement is intended to disclaim the representations dance vision made in the franchise disclosure document delivered to sub franchisor. time is of the essence of this agreement. this agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts each of which will be deemed an original and all of which together will be deemed the same instrument. interpretation modifications. the preamble recitals are incorporated in and made a part of this agreement. this agreement may only be modified or amended by a document in writing executed by the parties. nothing in this agreement is intended to confer upon any person or entity other than dance vision and sub franchisor and their respective successors and permitted assigns any rights or remedies under or by reason of this agreement. the singular usage includes the plural and the masculine and neuter usages include the other and the feminine. all terms used in any number or gender will extend to mean and include any other number and gender as the facts context or sense of this agreement or any article or paragraph may require. all captions and headings in this agreement are for convenience only and will not be used to determine the intent or meaning of this agreement. this agreement may be executed in multiple original copies. each copy originally executed will be deemed an original. severability and survival of covenants. if one or more of the provisions of this agreement is construed to be invalid illegal or unenforceable in any respect the validity legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions and any other application of the provisions will not in any way be affected or impaired. if any provision contravenes the law of any jurisdiction the provision will be deemed not to be a part of this agreement in that jurisdiction. the covenants contained in this agreement which by their terms require performance by the parties after the expiration or termination of this agreement will be enforceable notwithstanding said expiration or other termination of this agreement for any reason whatsoever. nothing contained in this agreement will require the commission of any act contrary to law. whenever there is any conflict between any provisions of this agreement and any present or future statute law ordinance or regulation contrary to which the parties have no legal right to contract the latter will prevail. in such event the provisions of this agreement thus affected will be curtailed and limited only to the extent necessary to bring it within the requirements of the law. if any part article paragraph sentence or clause of this agreement is held to be indefinite invalid or otherwise unenforceable the indefinite invalid or unenforceable provision will be deemed deleted and the remaining part of this agreement will continue in full force and effect. amendment. any modification or change of this agreement must be in a writing and must be executed by both an officer of dance vision and an officer of sub franchisor. acknowledgments and representations receipt of disclosure documents. sub franchisor acknowledges that sub franchisor has received the dance vision franchise disclosure document at the earlier of the first personal meeting in maryland new york and rhode island or calendar days before signing any dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub franchise or related agreement or making any payment with the franchisor or an affiliate in connection with the franchise sale. in addition sub franchisor acknowledges either receipt of this agreement containing all substantive terms at the time of delivery of the franchise disclosure document or if dance vision has unilaterally or materially altered the terms and conditions of dance vision standard franchise agreement or any related agreements attached to the franchise disclosure document sub franchisor acknowledges that sub franchisor received a complete and final copy of this agreement and its exhibits not less than calendar days before sub franchisor signed this agreement. the submission of this agreement does not constitute an offer and this agreement will become effective only upon the execution by sub franchisor and dance vision. this agreement will not be binding on dance vision unless and until it will have been accepted and signed by its president. this agreement will not become effective until and unless sub franchisor has been furnished with all disclosure documents in written form as may be required under or pursuant to applicable law for requisite time periods. sub franchisor has read and understand this agreement. sub franchisor acknowledges that sub franchisor has had ample to read and have read this agreement and the dance vision franchise disclosure document. sub franchisor understands and accepts the terms conditions and covenants contained in this agreement. they are necessary to maintain high standards of quality service and uniformity at all franchises. they protect and preserve the goodwill of the marks and the confidentiality and value of the system. sub franchisor has received advice from advisors of sub franchisor own choosing regarding all pertinent aspects of this franchise and the sub franchise relationship created by this agreement. sub franchisor also acknowledges that sub franchisor believes to have made a good decision for itself or its partners or entity based upon what sub franchisor believes is sub franchisor ability to run and control a business. varying forms of agreement. sub franchisor is aware that some present and future dance vision franchisees may operate under different forms of agreement and consequently that the obligations and rights in respect to various present and future dance vision franchisees may differ materially in certain circumstances. speculative success. sub franchisor success is speculative and depends to a large extent upon sub franchisor ability as an independent businessperson. sub franchisor recognizes that the business venture contemplated by this agreement involves business risks. dance vision does not make any representation or warranty express or implied as to sub franchisor potential success. independent investigation no projections or representations. sub franchisor acknowledges that it has entered this agreement after conducting an independent investigation of dance vision and of the dance vision system. sub franchisor acknowledges that sub franchisor has not received any representation warranty or guarantee express or implied concerning the potential revenues cost savings volume profits or success of the business venture contemplated by this agreement. sub franchisor acknowledges that neither dance vision nor any of its officers directors shareholders employees agents or servants made any other representation about the business contemplated by this agreement or that are not expressly set forth in this agreement or in the dance vision franchise disclosure document no review of business plans loan applications. prior to sub franchisor execution of this agreement dance vision has not given sub franchisor any advice or review of any of sub franchisor business plans or third party loan applications related to sub franchisor purchase of and proposed operations. dance vision strongly recommended that sub franchisor retain and work with its own independent accountant and financial advisors to fully review all financial aspects dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub of sub franchisor potential investment. sub franchisor acknowledges that dance vision will not provide financial assistance to sub franchisor and that dance vision has made no representation that it will buy back from sub franchisor any products supplies or equipment sub franchisor purchases in connection with this agreement. sub franchise territory. sub franchisor acknowledges that dance vision will not provide or designate locations for sub franchisor. sub franchisor has investigated the potential of the market area in which sub franchisor are to establish and operate sub franchisor franchise business and the applicable laws and regulations. health and full time participation. sub franchisor acknowledges that a dance vision business involves hard work and sometimes long hours similar to most small businesses that are owner operated. dance vision have not represented that this business is going to be easy for sub franchisor and its partners officers or directors. sub franchisor or sub franchisor majority owner if sub franchisor is a corporation limited liability company or partnership must actively participate in the daily affairs of the business. sub franchisor represents that sub franchisor or its majority owner are in good health and able to devote full time and best efforts in the day to day operations of the franchised business or that sub franchisor has the business management skills necessary to successfully hire a general manager to run the day to day operations of the franchised business. terrorism convictions immigration status. neither sub franchisor nor any person or entity associated with sub franchisor nor anyone who has an interest in or who will manage the franchise nor any of sub franchisor partners or affiliates supports terrorism provides money or financial services to terrorists receives money or financial services from terrorists or institutions that support terrorists is engaged in terrorism or is on the current. government lists of persons and organizations that support terrorism as provided for by law such as the list of specially designated nationals and blocked persons under the united states of america united states of america usa or or patriot act usc section et seq. neither sub franchisor nor any of these persons has engaged in or been convicted of fraud corruption bribery money laundering narcotics trafficking or other crimes and each is eligible under applicable. immigration laws to communicate with and travel to the united states to fulfill sub franchisor obligations under sub franchisor agreements with dance vision. investigation. dance vision may conduct investigations and make inquiries of any person or persons it in its reasonable judgment believes appropriate concerning the credit standing character and professional and personal qualifications of sub franchisor and sub franchisor owners shareholders members and partners. sub franchisor authorizes dance vision to conduct these investigations and to make these inquiries. dance vision agrees to comply with the requirements of laws that apply to these investigations and inquiries. supplier approval. sub franchisor acknowledges that while sub franchisor may propose alternate suppliers for materials products and services the proposed suppliers may not qualify. sub franchisor further acknowledges that dance vision and its approved suppliers may be the only source of supply for materials products and services required in the dance vision franchise system. professional guide and manuals. sub franchisor acknowledges that the professional guide and manuals are loaned to sub franchisor by dance vision and at all times the professional guide and manuals and any updated or amended pages remain the property of dance vision and that the copyright in the professional guide the manuals and all associated materials is vested in exclusively in dance vision. sub franchisor agrees to return to dance vision the professional guide the manuals and all updates or amendments to them immediately upon written demand. release of prior claims. by executing this agreement sub franchisor on behalf of itself and its dance vision sub franchise agreement dance vision fddsub heirs legal representatives successors and assigns and each assignee of this agreement forever release and discharge dance vision and dance vision past and present employees agents members area developers officers and directors including any of its and their parents subsidiaries and affiliated entities their respective past and present employees agents members officers and directors from any and all claims relating to or arising out of any franchise agreement between the parties executed prior to the date of this agreement and all other prior claims relating to any prior dealings between any of the parties apart from those specifically related to this agreement. however this release does not apply to any claim sub franchisor may have arising from representations in dance visions sub franchise offering franchise disclosure document or its exhibits or amendments. no representations projections or warranties. dance vision has not made any representations promises guarantees projections or warranties of any kind to sub franchisor sub franchisor owners or the guarantors of this agreement or concerning this agreement except as specifically set forth in writing in this agreement and in the franchise disclosure document that dance vision delivered to sub franchisor. sub franchisor acknowledges that neither dance vision nor any other party has guaranteed sub franchisor success in the business contemplated by this agreement. governing language. the parties agree that the governing language of this agreement and of the relationship between the parties is english. although this agreement and communications may be translated for convenience or pursuant to legal requirements into languages relevant to the sub franchise territory the english language version will be the governing version in the event of any dispute over meaning any sub franchise territory translation is for convenience purposes only. the official version of all accountings and reports required by this agreement will be in english and may also be furnished for convenience in the language of the sub franchise territory. sub franchisor will communicate with dance vision in english or in languages appropriate to the sub franchise territory and with an english translation version attached. this includes all reports correspondence proposed advertisements and any other written document or oral communication provided for any reason including copies of franchise agreements executed by franchisees. it witness whereof the parties have executed this agreement the dates written below effective on the date first written above. dance vision franchise international incorporated by title date sub franchisor company by title date dance vision sub franchisor agreement dance vision fddsub exhibit sub franchise territory the sub franchise territory island the boundaries of the sub franchise territory are based on the physical location of the references used to describe the boundaries of the territory on the date of this agreement. if a street address is used to describe a location the renumbering of the address will not serve to move the location. if a specified boundary of the sub franchise territory is described as a street or highway the center line is intended if the boundary is described as a political dividing line such as a state line or city limit the line utilized by the appropriate political jurisdiction is intended. the area and physical location of the franchise territory will not be altered by a subsequent movement of the references originally used to describe them. also it is only those points to the inside of the boundary that form a part of the sub franchise territory for example if a franchise territory is bounded on the north by main street only the area south of the center line of main street is within the franchise territory. for all calculations based upon a distance the measurement will be made in a straight line following the now current shortest driving distance in every possible direction measured by the centerline between the nearest points if any portion of an object is within the prescribed distance from a point the entire object is considered to be within that distance. or designated area if the sub franchise territory has not been determined when this agreement is executed sub franchisor is responsible for selecting the site for the sub franchise within the following designated area. the sub franchise territory and sub franchisor franchise site must be in the united states of america legally available pursuant to state and federal franchise and business opportunity disclosure and registration laws and pursuant to dance vision contractual commitments including those with dance vision other franchisees and in compliance with dance vision franchise placement market development and demographic criteria. dance vision sub franchisor agreement dance vision fddsub exhibit development schedule development schedule for the united states of america year of agreement number of dance studios to be opened during year cumulative number of dance studios development schedule for canada year of agreement number of dance studios to be opened during year cumulative number of dance studios development schedule for mexico year of agreement number of dance studios to be opened during year cumulative number of dance studios dance vision sub franchisor agreement dance vision fddsub financial performance standard as an alternative to the development schedule sub franchisor must deliver to dance vision a minimum of. within the initial first two years of the term at least through any form of payment including consulting fees. within the next two years of the term at least through any form of payment generated under this agreement from the sub franchise territory as then defined. within the following two years of the term at least through any form of payment generated under this agreement from the sub franchise territory as then defined. by the end of the sixth year of the term a minimum of must have been generated from each nation in the sub franchise territory. if not dance vision may at its option in good faith remove from the sub franchise territory any nation or state province part of a nation for which has not been received. thereafter at least per year through any form of payment generated under this agreement from the sub franchise territory as then defined. by the end of the tenth year a minimum of must have been generated from each nation in the sub franchise territory. if not dance vision may at its option in good faith remove from the sub franchise territory any nation or state province part of a nation for which has not been received. removal of a nation state or province from the sub franchise territory will not affect any license agreements into which sub franchisor has entered before the removal. subject to the rights of other dance vision master licensors and licenses during the term of this agreement sub franchisor may continue to offer system franchise opportunities in any nation state or province removed from the sub franchise territory. however the provisions of section. will not apply to the removed nation state or province. dance vision may establish directly or indirectly or license any other party to establish any part of the dance vision business in the removed portions of the sub franchise territory without sub franchisor consent and without prejudice to either party rights or obligations under this agreement. dance vision sub franchisor agreement dance vision fddsub exhibit sba addendum dance vision sub franchisor agreement dance vision fddsub dance vision sub franchisor agreement dance vision fddsub dance vision sub franchisor agreement dance vision fddsub exhibit to the dance vision franchise disclosure document information concerning dance vision sub franchisors the following is a list of the sub franchisors of the dance vision franchise system alphabetically by state. the listed information responds to items name address and business organization of the sub franchisor identity and experience of persons affiliated with the sub franchisor litigation and bankruptcy of the attached franchise disclosure document. item name business address business phone item item there is nothing required to be disclosed under this item. item conditional assignment of phone number dance vision fddsub exhibit to the dance vision franchise disclosure document conditional assignment of phone number in consideration of the granting of a franchise to you and other valuable consideration given by dance vision international incorporated a nevada corporation us you assign to us all telephone numbers telephone and internet listings website and social media addresses and domain names you use in the operation of the franchise. we assume the performance of all of the terms covenants and conditions of your related agreements with utilities and providers with the full force and effect as of the date we assume control under the relevant agreements as if we had originally been named as the contracting party under in the agreements. we will hold this assignment and will deliver it to the interested third parties only upon termination of the franchise agreement between us and you dated the day of dated this day of. we us dance vision franchise international incorporated you by by title title by title abandonment relinquishment and termination of assumed or fictitious business name dance vision fddsub exhibit to the dance vision franchise disclosure document dance vision franchise agreement addendum abandonment relinquishment and termination of assumed or fictitious business name pursuant to the provisions of relevant state laws concerning the registration and use of assumed or fictitious business names the undersigned applicant being a franchisee of dance vision franchise international incorporated submits the following to evidence its intent to abandon relinquish and terminate its right to use the business name dance vision. name of applicant who is using the assumed or fictitious business name a an individual partnership corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the state of. date when original assumed or fictitious business name was filed by applicant. address of applicant registered office in the state of. please cancel the applicant registration to use the name dance vision dated applicant by title state law addendum dance vision fddsub exhibit to the dance vision franchise disclosure document franchise disclosure document state law addendum the following modifications and additions are part of the dance vision franchise disclosure document fdd and franchise agreement fa and confidentiality non disclosure and non compete agreement california as required by relevant state laws. california the registration of this franchise offering by the california department of financial protection and innovation does not constitute approval recommendation or endorsement by the commissioner. the california franchise investment law requires that copy of all proposed agreements relating to the sale of the franchise be delivered together with the disclosure document. our website address is our website has not been reviewed or approved by the california department of financial protection and innovation. any complaints concerning the content of this website may be directed to the california department of financial protection and innovation at no statement questionnaire or acknowledgment signed or agreed to by a franchisee in connection with the commencement of the franchise relationship shall have the effect of i waiving any claims under any applicable state franchise law including fraud in the inducement or ii disclaiming reliance on any statement made by any franchisor franchise seller or other person acting on behalf of the franchisor. this provision supersedes any other term of any document executed in connection with the franchise. risk factors based upon the franchisor financial condition the california department of financial protection and innovation has required a financial assurance. therefore all initial fees and payments owed by subfranchisor shall be deferred until the franchisor completes its initial pre opening obligations under the subfranchise agreement or other documents and the subfranchisor has commenced doing business pursuant to the subfranchise agreement. fdd item fa section the highest interest rate allowed by law in california is annually. fdd item fa sections and california business and professions code sections through provide rights to the franchisee concerning termination transfer or non renewal of a franchise. if the franchise agreement contains a provision that is inconsistent with the law the law will control. the franchise agreement provides for termination upon bankruptcy. this provision may not be enforceable under federal bankruptcy law. second et. seq. the franchise agreement contains a covenant not to compete which extends beyond the termination of the franchise. this provision may not be enforceable under california law. the franchise agreement contains a liquidated damages clause. under california civil code section certain liquidated damages clauses are unenforceable. http http state law addendum dance vision fddsub you must sign a general release if you renew or transfer your franchise. california corporations code section voids a waiver of your rights under the franchise investment law california corporations code sections through. business and professions code section voids a waiver of your rights under the franchise relations act business and professions code sections through. the franchise agreement provides that all issues or disagreements relating to the franchise agreement will be mediated tried heard and decided in las vegas nevada with the costs being borne by the non prevailing party. prospective franchisees are encouraged to consult private legal counsel to determine the applicability of california and federal laws such as business and professions code section. code of civil procedure section and the federal arbitration act to any provisions of a franchise agreement restricting venue to a forum outside the state of california. the franchise agreement requires application of the laws of the state of nevada. this provision may not be enforceable under california law. section of the california corporations code requires us to give you a disclosure document in a form and containing the information that the commissioner may by rule or order require before a solicitation of a proposed material modification of an existing franchise. the antitrust law section of the office of the california attorney general views certain maximum and minimum price arrangements as per south east violations of the cartwright act. fdd item california ccr section. requires disclosure regarding whether the franchisor any person or franchise broker in item of the fdd is subject to any currently effective order of any national securities association or national securities exchange as defined in the securities exchange act of. a et seq. suspending or expelling such persons from membership in that association or exchange. idaho fdd item fa section any condition in a franchise agreement executed by a resident of idaho or a business entity organized under the laws of idaho is void to the extent it purports to waive venue or jurisdiction of the idaho court system. venue and jurisdiction will be in idaho if the franchisee is an idaho resident or a business entity organized under the laws of idaho. georgia disclosures required by georgia law the state of georgia has not reviewed and does not approve recommend endorse or sponsor any business opportunity. the information contained in this disclosure has not been verified by the state. if you have any questions about this investment see an attorney before you sign a contract or agreement. if for any reason any provision set forth in the franchise agreement including those related to in term and post term covenants against competition and non disclosure and non use of confidential information exceeds any lawful scope or limit as to duration geographic coverage specificity or otherwise it is agreed that the provision will nevertheless be binding to the full scope or limit allowed by law or by a court of law. indeed the parties acknowledge their desire and intent that such provisions be modified by a court or state law addendum dance vision fddsub arbitrator to comply with georgia law if needed. the duration geographic coverage and scope allowable by law or court of law will apply to this agreement. ohio the ohio business opportunity plan law requires a notice of the purchaser right to cancel the agreement in at least ten point boldface type in the following form and in close proximity to the space reserved in the agreement for the signature of the purchaser you the purchaser may cancel this transaction at any time prior to midnight of the fifth business day after the date you sign this agreement. see the attached notice of cancellation for an explanation of this right. completed form in duplicate captioned notice of cancellation must be attached to the agreement signed by the purchaser and be easily detachable and must contain in ten point boldface type the following statement notice of cancellation enter date of transaction you may cancel this transaction without penalty or obligation within five business days from the above date. if you cancel any payments made by you under the agreement and any negotiable instrument executed by you will be returned within ten business days following the seller receipt of your cancellation notice and any security interest arising out of the transaction will be cancelled. if you cancel you must make available to the seller at your business address all goods delivered to you under this agreement or you may if you wish comply with the instructions of the seller regarding the return shipment of the goods at the seller expense and risk. if you do make the goods available to the seller and the seller does not pick them up within twenty days of the date of your notice of cancellation you may retain or dispose of them without further obligation. if you fail to make the goods available to the seller or if you agree to return them to the seller and fail to do so then you remain liable for the performance of all obligations under this agreement. to cancel this transaction mail or deliver a signed and dated copy of this cancellation notice or any other written notice or send a telegram to name of seller at address of seller place of business or send a fax to name of seller at seller facsimile number or an mail to name of seller at seller electronic mail address not later than midnight of enter date. hereby cancel this transaction. date purchaser signature fdd item fa section ohio business opportunity plan law section. provides that in connection with the sale or lease of a business opportunity plan any provision in an agreement restricting jurisdiction or venue to a forum outside of the state of ohio or requiring the application of laws of another state other than the state of ohio is void with respect to a claim otherwise enforceable under sections. to. of the revised business opportunity plan law. the ohio business opportunity plan law requires that certain provisions contained in the franchise agreement be amended to be consistent with ohio law in the event of a conflict of laws ohio law will prevail. state law addendum dance vision fddsub any claim or action may be brought in the appropriate state or federal court in ohio. the statutes of limitations under ohio law will apply. washington washington addendum to the franchise disclosure document franchise agreement warranties and disclaimers by prospective franchisees and related agreements the state of washington has imposed a financial condition under which the initial franchise fees due will be deferred until the franchisor has fulfilled its initial pre opening obligations under the franchise agreement and the franchise is open for business. in the event of a conflict of laws the provisions of the washington franchise investment protection act chapter. rcw will prevail. rcw. may supersede the franchise agreement in your relationship with the franchisor including the areas of termination and renewal of your franchise. there may also be court decisions which may supersede the franchise agreement in your relationship with the franchisor including the areas of termination and renewal of your franchise. in any arbitration or mediation involving a franchise purchased in washington the arbitration or mediation site will be either in the state of washington or in a place mutually agreed upon at the time of the arbitration or mediation or as determined by the arbitrator or mediator at the time of arbitration or mediation. in addition if litigation is not precluded by the franchise agreement a franchisee may bring an action or proceeding arising out of or in connection with the sale of franchises or a violation of the washington franchise investment protection act in washington. release or waiver of rights executed by a franchisee may not include rights under the washington franchise investment protection act or any rule or order thereunder except when executed pursuant to a negotiated settlement after the agreement is in effect and where the parties are represented by independent counsel. provisions such as those which unreasonably restrict or limit the statute of limitations period for claims under the act or rights or remedies under the act such as a right to a jury trial may not be enforceable. transfer fees are collectable to the extent that they reflect the franchisor reasonable estimated or actual costs in effecting a transfer. effective january the state of washington now restricts the use of non compete agreements in washington. see https immixlaw.com washington washington state non competition covenants. notable changes include an employee non compete covenant is unenforceable unless the employee annual earnings exceed a presumption is created that any non compete covenant with a duration longer than months is unreasonable and unenforceable and a franchisor may not restrict restrain or prohibit a franchisee from soliciting or hiring any employee of the franchisor or a franchisee of the same franchisor. the franchise agreement is subject to and will be interpreted and enforced consistent with the washington non compete law. chapter. rcw limits the use of noncompetition agreements and may supersede the franchise agreement noncompetition provisions. washington law provides as follows an employee non compete covenant is unenforceable unless the employee annual earnings exceed a presumption is created that any non compete covenant with a duration longer than months is unreasonable and unenforceable a franchisor may not restrict restrain or prohibit a franchisee from soliciting or hiring any employee of the franchisor or a franchisee of the same franchisor and any https immixlaw.com washington washington state non competition covenants https immixlaw.com washington washington state non competition covenants state law addendum dance vision fddsub contractual provision that requires an employee to adjudicate a noncompetition covenant outside of washington state is void and unenforceable. the franchisee acknowledges receipt of this addendum. it is agreed that the applicable foregoing state law addendum for the state of if any supersedes any inconsistent portion of the franchise agreement to which this addendum is attached of this same date and of the franchise disclosure document. all terms of the franchise agreement including these state law addendum provisions for the relevant state have been agreed to at the time the franchise agreement was signed. however this addendum will have effect only if the franchise agreement or our relationship with you satisfies all of the jurisdictional requirements of the relevant state franchise laws without considering this addendum. dated this day of. we us dance vision franchise international incorporated you by by title title warranties and disclaimers by prospective franchisees dance vision fddsub warranties and disclaimers by prospective franchisees of dance vision dance vision franchise international incorporated we us desires to confirm that you fully understand that the purchase of a dance vision franchise is a business decision involving the evaluation of many risks. please review each of the following questions and statements carefully and provide honest and complete responses to each. background and general information. please state your name and address. what is the location of the franchise you are purchasing?. have you received a copy of our most current disclosure document? yes no on what date did you receive the disclosure document?. franchise location and related warranties. location you have applied for and am in the process of receiving a franchise to an dance vision franchise to be located at in the city of state of the site. ii. lease terms. warranty you personally have reviewed the proposed lease or contract of purchase of the site. you have had the opportunity to consult with independent legal accounting and real estate experts to help form your own opinion of the acceptability of the lease or purchase contract to the site. submission to you you will submit to us the lease or contract to purchase for approval before you execute it. warranties and disclaimers by prospective franchisees dance vision fddsub iii. franchise. warranty you personally have read the franchise disclosure document and dance vision franchise agreement. you have had the opportunity to consult with independent legal accounting and franchise advisory experts before signing the dance vision franchise agreement. representations. except as explicitly set forth in the franchise agreement or a written addendum to it no promises agreements contracts commitments representations understandings side deals or otherwise have been made to or with you with respect to any matter. this includes but is not limited to any representations or promises regarding advertising marketing site location operational assistance or other services except as follows if no exceptions write none. no oral written or visual claim or representation promise agreement contract commitment understanding or otherwise which contradicts or is inconsistent with the disclosure document or the franchise agreement has been made to you except as follows if no exceptions write none. except as contained in your franchise disclosure document including item no oral written visual or other claim or representation has been made to me by any person or entity which states or suggests any actual average projected or forecasted sales gross receipts operating costs revenues income profits expenses cash flow tax effects earnings or otherwise that is not contained in the franchise disclosure document except as follows if no exceptions write none. you acknowledge that a representative has not made any statement promise or assurance concerning the likelihood of success that you should or might expect to achieve from developing and operating a dance vision franchise. if you believe that one of these statements promises or assurances has been made please describe the statement promise or assurance in the space provided below or write none. you acknowledge that a representative has not made any statement promise or assurance concerning the advertising marketing training support services or assistance that dance vision will furnish you that is contrary to or different from the information contained in the franchise disclosure document. if you believe that one of these statements warranties and disclaimers by prospective franchisees dance vision fddsub promises or assurances has been made please describe the statement or promise in the space provided below or write none. you acknowledge that a representative has not made any other statement promise or assurance concerning any other matter related to a dance vision franchise that is contrary to or different from the information contained in the disclosure document. if you believe that one of these statements promises or assurances has been made please describe the statement promise or assurance in the space provided below or write none. virgin islands warranties regarding participation. you will personally participate in the management of the dance vision franchise as provided for in the franchise agreement. you will faithfully and fully perform all duties required of you under the franchise agreement. you warrant that your purchase of the franchise is for your own account and is not made with a view to or for resale. you acknowledge that your decision to obtain a dance vision franchise has been based upon the dance vision franchise disclosure document and franchise agreement and your own investigations upon which you rely. acknowledgement by signing below you acknowledge that you have personal knowledge of the foregoing and following facts and representations and that they are all true complete accurate and correct. you acknowledge that you received the disclosure document at least calendar days before you signed a binding agreement with or made a payment to us or our affiliate in connection with the proposed franchise sale or sooner if required by state law. you acknowledge that you received the franchise agreement if applicable at least calendar days before signing them. you acknowledge that you have personally and carefully reviewed the disclosure document that you understand all of the information in the disclosure document and that you have been advised by to have professional advisors of your own including legal counsel review the disclosure document and consult with you regarding the risks associated with the purchase and operation of a dance vision franchise. you acknowledge that you have made your own independent determination as to whether you have the capital necessary to fund a dance vision franchise. you recognize and understand that the success or failure of a dance vision franchise is subject to many variables including but not limited to a geographic location warranties and disclaimers by prospective franchisees dance vision fddsub competition from other businesses in the market advertising effectiveness based on market saturation whether you assume the sales position or hire a sales manager your product and service pricing vendor prices on materials supplies and inventory salaries and benefits to non business personnel business personnel benefits life and health insurance et cetera i weather conditions employment conditions in the market inflation and lease terms and costs and other business factors. you acknowledge your willingness to undertake these business risks and that it is your responsibility to manage your dance vision franchise. you understand that the success or failure of your dance vision franchise depends primarily upon your efforts and not those of dance vision. you do so to acknowledge that we may rely upon your complete candor honesty and truthfulness. dated this day of. an individual dance vision fddsub confidentiality non disclosure and non compete agreement exhibit to the dance vision franchise disclosure document dance vision confidentiality non disclosure and noncompete agreement this agreement has been entered this day of. it is by and between dance vision franchise international incorporated a nevada corporation we us and you. we own proprietary ideas and other confidential information related to the ownership and operation of dance vision dance instruction and competition studios. through rigorous testing and training we have developed a unique and uniform concept curricula products dcor and service. we have certain rights to and intend to continue to develop curricula products services valuable goodwill expertise proprietary ideas confidential information service marks methods procedures techniques guidelines and materials connected with the operation promotion and advertising of our dance instruction or competition studios collectively these are called the method of operation. you and we desire to discuss the offer and sale of a franchise and potentially to enter into related commercial relationships. in the course of these discussions and our relationship it will be necessary for us to disclose confidential information to you. therefore in consideration of the following mutual promises and covenants the parties agree as follows protection of confidentiality. confidential information defined. in this agreement confidential information shall mean a any information that relates to our proprietary ideas trade secrets business products technology students finances plans proposals or practices of us including but not limited to plans and specifications for new products discoveries ideas know how research and development inventions techniques marketing strategies student lists financing sources and suppliers non public financial information budgets data and projections our proprietary information and information we mark or designate as confidential information whether or not in written form and whether or not designated as confidential which is known to you as being treated by us as confidential information provided to us by third parties which we are obligated to keep confidential. the confidential information shall include information in any form in which such information exists whether oral written film tape computer disk digital or other form of media. our exclusive property. you acknowledge and agree that our method of operation and all confidential information is and shall continue to be our sole and exclusive property whether or not disclosed or entrusted to you in connection with your relationship with us. nothing in this agreement will give you or others any right title or interest whatsoever in or to them. the confidential information shall be considered our trade secrets and shall be entitled to all protections provided by applicable law to trade secrets. conflicting or competing interests. neither you nor your owners shareholders members partners directors officers managers employees consultants distributors or agents nor the members of your or their immediate families or households who have access to or knowledge of the confidential information or method of operation will directly or indirectly participate as an owner shareholder partner director officer employee consultant distributor or agent or serve in any other capacity in any business including business in formation engaged or to be engaged in the offering or sale dance vision fddsub confidentiality non disclosure and non compete agreement or rental of products or services that are the same as or substantially similar to the products and services that are part of the method of operation. you will assure that you and your owners shareholders partners directors officers employees and agents and the members of their immediate families or households who have actual knowledge of or access to the professional guide or method of operation will not directly or indirectly participate as an owner shareholder director partner officer employee consultant franchisor franchisee distributor advisor or agent or serve in any other capacity in any business engaged directly or indirectly in the offer sale rental internet dissemination or promotion of products or services or any business that offers products or services that are essentially the same as or substantially similar to the products and services that are part of the method of operation. this covenant applies within a mile radius of any location where we operate or have granted the franchise to operate a dance vision business and at any location within the united states of america. covenant of non disclosure you specifically acknowledge that you will receive valuable specialized and confidential information including information regarding our operational sales promotional and marketing methods and techniques and the method of operation. you agree not to disclose confidential information to any third party and to limit disclosure within your association to designated employees approved by us. disclosures to designated employees will be done on a need to know basis to the extent necessary for them to perform the duties of their employment with you. unless required by court order or applicable law you agree not to copy download send or divulge any confidential information directly or indirectly to any other person or enterprise outside of our system. you will never communicate divulge or use in any manner either for your benefit or the benefit or any other person persons partnerships associations companies or corporations any confidential information or proprietary information knowledge or know how concerning the method of operation or any information we have communicated to you in written verbal or electronic form including intranet passwords for the operation of your business. covenant of non use you agree not to use confidential information or the method of operation except as authorized by us. you will obligate your owners board of directors your employees and your agents to the same non use covenant. we must approve in writing any use of confidential information or method of operation by you or your owners or your directors or employees. reciprocal obligation should discussions between you and us require or entail disclosure of any of your confidential or proprietary information to us we agree to the same obligations of confidentiality and non use as are imposed on you by this agreement. miscellaneous. duration. the obligations set forth in this agreement will continue during and beyond the term of your relationship with us and for as long as you possess confidential information. waiver. waiver of any breach of any provision term covenant or condition of this agreement will not be a waiver of any subsequent breach of the same or any other provision term covenant or condition. any waiver to this agreement provisions must be made in signed writing by the granting party. construction. this document is the entire agreement between the parties. it supersedes all prior or contemporaneous written and oral agreements or understandings with respect to the subject matter of this agreement. it may not be modified or amended except by signed written agreement. this agreement benefits and binds the respective heirs executors administrators successors and assigns of the parties. enforcement. the prevailing party the party who recovers the greater relief in any arbitration insolvency proceeding bankruptcy proceeding suit or action to enforce this agreement will recover its arbitration proceeding and court costs and reasonable attorney fees. these will be set by the dance vision fddsub confidentiality non disclosure and non compete agreement arbitration proceeding or court including costs and attorney fees on appeal or review from the arbitration proceeding suit or action. acknowledgments. no person has made any other representation that is not expressly set forth in this agreement to induce you to accept and execute this agreement. signatures in witness the parties have executed this agreement on the date written above. we us dance vision franchise international incorporated by title you by title electronic debit authorization form dance vision fddsub exhibit to the dance vision franchise disclosure document electronic debit authorization form the undersigned the franchisee acknowledges that on or about franchisee and dance vision franchise international incorporated the franchisor entered into a franchise agreement the franchise agreement for the operation of a franchise. to enable franchisor to receive automatic payments pursuant to the franchise agreement and franchisor professional guide franchisee hereby authorizes the authorization franchisor to withdraw funds from and otherwise initiate debit entries to franchisee checking account indicated below and the depository named below the depository to debit the same to such account. depository name branch city state and zip transit aba bank account name bank account number tax idaho for account this authorization is to remain in full force and effect until the underlying obligations of the franchise agreement have been satisfied in full or expressly released in writing by franchisor. franchisee expressly agrees that this authorization will apply to any and all depositories and bank accounts which franchisee opens during the term of the franchise agreement and any renewal terms. without limiting the above franchisee acknowledges and agrees that if franchisee closes any bank account franchisee will immediately notify franchisor in writing open or otherwise establish another bank account execute and deliver to franchisor all documents necessary for franchisor to begin and continue making withdrawals from such bank account depository by ach debiting or other electronic means. franchisee expressly acknowledges and agrees that this authorization will be the only written authorization needed from franchisee in order to initiate debit entries ach debit originations to franchisee bank account established with any depository in the future. name of franchisee studio signature print name title date notice to franchisee attach one voided check here. ensure to complete all blank spaces above. return original copies of this form to franchisor immediately. state effective dates page dance vision fddsub exhibit to the dance vision franchise disclosure document state effective dates the following states have franchise laws that require that the franchise disclosure document be registered or filed with the state or be exempt from registration california hawaii illinois indiana maryland michigan minnesota new york north dakota rhode island south dakota virginia washington and wisconsin. this document is effective and may be used in the following states where the document is filed registered or exempt from registration as of the effective date stated below state effective date california pending org connecticut june florida january bf hawaii no registration illinois no registration indiana no registration kentucky june maryland no registration michigan no registration minnesota no registration nebraska may new york no registration north dakota no registration rhode island no registration south dakota no registration texas april utah july bsoe virginia no registration washington pending wisconsin no registration other states may require registration filing or exemption of a franchise under other laws such as those that regulate the offer and sale of business opportunities or seller assisted marketing plans. acknowledgment of receipt dance vision fddsub exhibit to the dance vision franchise disclosure document receipt this disclosure document summarizes certain provisions of the franchise agreement and other information in plain language. read this disclosure document and all agreements carefully. if dance vision franchise international incorporated offers you a franchise it must provide this disclosure document to you days maryland new york and rhode island law require delivery at the first personal meeting before you sign a binding agreement or make a payment with the franchisor or an affiliate in connection with the proposed franchise sale. if dance vision franchise international incorporated does not deliver this disclosure document on time or if it contains a false or misleading statement or a material omission a violation of federal and state law may have occurred and should be reported to the federal trade commission washington. and the state agency listed in exhibit. the names principal business addresses and telephone numbers of each franchise seller offering the franchise are wayne england west sahara avenue suite las vegas nevada see exhibit for our registered agents authorized to receive service of process. date of issuance see effective date below. have received a disclosure document dated june. it is effective in various states as of the dates set forth on the fdd cover page. this disclosure document included the following exhibits. audited financial statements. list of state agents for service of process and state administrators. professional guide table of contents. sample franchise agreement and its exhibits. conditional assignment of phone number. abandonment relinquishment and termination of assumed business name. state law addendum. confidentiality non disclosure and non compete agreement. electronic debit authorization form. state effective dates. receipt dated this day of. prospective franchisee prospective franchisee if partnership all general partners must execute this acknowledgment. if corporation or limited liability company an officer authorized to receive this circular on behalf of the corporation or limited liability company must execute this acknowledgment. keep this copy for your records. acknowledgment of receipt dance vision fddsub exhibit to the dance vision franchise disclosure document receipt this disclosure document summarizes certain provisions of the franchise agreement and other information in plain language. read this disclosure document and all agreements carefully. if dance vision franchise international incorporated offers you a franchise it must provide this disclosure document to you days maryland new york and rhode island law require delivery at the first personal meeting before you sign a binding agreement or make a payment with the franchisor or an affiliate in connection with the proposed franchise sale. if dance vision franchise international incorporated does not deliver this disclosure document on time or if it contains a false or misleading statement or a material omission a violation of federal and state law may have occurred and should be reported to the federal trade commission washington. and the state agency listed in exhibit. the names principal business addresses and telephone numbers of each franchise seller offering the franchise are wayne england west sahara avenue suite las vegas nevada see exhibit for our registered agents authorized to receive service of process. date of issuance see effective date below. have received a disclosure document dated june. it is effective in various states as of the dates set forth on the fdd cover page. this disclosure document included the following exhibits. audited financial statements. list of state agents for service of process and state administrators. professional guide table of contents. sample franchise agreement and its exhibits. conditional assignment of phone number. abandonment relinquishment and termination of assumed business name. state law addendum. confidentiality agreement. electronic debit authorization form. state effective dates. receipt dated this day of. prospective franchisee prospective franchisee if partnership all general partners must execute this acknowledgment. if corporation or limited liability company an officer authorized to receive this circular on behalf of the corporation or limited liability company must execute this acknowledgment. please sign this copy of the receipt date your signature and return it to dance vision franchise international incorporated west sahara avenue suite las vegas nevada.