unnamed etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. we offer a franchise to own and operate a fitness and workout studio under the eat the frog fitness and or etf fitness name and marks. the total investment necessary to begin operation of an etf fitness franchise ranges from to. tthis includes to that must be paid to the franchisor or its affiliates which amount depends on the number of etf fitness franchises you currently own. this disclosure document summarizes certain provisions of your franchise agreement and other information in plain english. read this disclosure document and all accompanying agreements carefully. you must receive this disclosure document at least calendar days before you sign a binding agreement with or make any payments to the franchisor or an affiliate in connection with the proposed franchise sale. note however that no government agency has verified the information contained in this document. you may wish to receive your disclosure document in another format that is more convenient for you. to discuss the availability of disclosures in different formats contact aaron culver at etf franchising llc highlands drive north-east suite pmb issaquah washington and. the terms of your contract will govern your franchise relationship. don rely on this disclosure document alone to understand your contract. read all of your contract carefully. show your contract and this disclosure document to an advisor like a lawyer or an accountant. buying a franchise is a complex investment. the information in this disclosure document can help you make up your mind. more information on franchising such as consumer guide to buying a franchise which can help you understand how to use this disclosure document is franchise disclosure document etf franchising llc a washington limited liability company highlands drive north-east suite pmb issaquah washington info etffitness.com available from the federal trade commission. you can contact the ftc at ftc help or by writing to the ftc at pennsylvania avenue north-west washington. you can also visit the ftc home page at for additional information. call your state agency or visit your public library for other sources of information on franchising. there may also be laws on franchising in your state. ask your state agencies about them. issuance date march april etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. state cover page your state may have a franchise law that requires a franchisor to register or file with a state franchise administrator before offering or selling in your state. registration of franchise by state does not mean that the state recommends the franchise or has verified the information in this franchise disclosure document. call the state franchise administrator listed in exhibit for information about the franchisor or about franchising in your state. many franchise agreements do not allow you to renew unconditionally after the initial term expires. you may have to sign new agreement with different terms and conditions in order to continue to operate your business. before you buy consider what rights you have to renew your franchise if any and what terms you might have to accept in order to renew. please consider the following risk factors before you buy this franchise. the franchise agreement requires you to resolve disputes with us by arbitration or litigation in jurisdiction in the state in which our principal place of business is located currently seattleissaquah washington. out of state arbitration or litigation may force you to accept less favorable settlement for disputes. it may also cost you more to arbitrate or litigate with us in the state in which our principal place of business is located currently seattleissaquah washington than in your home state. the franchise agreement states that washington law governs the agreement and this law may not provide the same protections and benefits as local law. you may want to compare these laws. your spouse may be required to sign document that makes your spouse liable for all financial obligations under the franchise agreement even though your spouse has no ownership interest in the franchise. this guarantee will place both your and your spouse marital and personal assets perhaps including your house at risk if your franchise fails. the franchisor is at an early stage of development and has limited operating hisotry. this franchise is likely to be riskier investment than franchise in system with longer operating history.financial condition as reflected in its financial statements see item calls into question the franchisor financial ability to provide services and support to you. we have limited financial resources which might not be adequate to fund our pre opening obligations to each franchisee and pay operating expenses. there may be other risks concerning this franchise. we may use the services of one or more franchise brokers or referral sources to assist us in etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. selling our franchise. franchise broker or referral source represents us not you. we pay this person a fee for selling our franchise or referring you to us. you should be sure to do your own investigation of the franchise. effective date see the next page for state effective dates. etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. etf franchising llc state effective dates the following states require that the disclosure document be registered or filed with the state or be exempt from registration california hawaii illinois indiana maryland michigan minnesota new york north dakota rhode island south dakota virginia washington and wisconsin. this disclosure document is registered on file or exempt from registration in the following states having franchise registration and disclosure laws with the following effective dates california april pending illinois march pending indiana march pending maryland pending michigan march pending minnesota pending new york april pending rhode island april pending virginia april pending washington pending wisconsin march pending in all other states that do not require registration the effective date of this disclosure document is the issuance date of march april. i etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. the following apply to transactions governed by michigan franchise investment law only the state of michigan prohibits certain unfair provisions that are sometimes in franchise documents. if any of the following provisions are in these franchise documents the provisions are void and cannot be enforced against you. a prohibition on the right of a franchisee to join an association of franchisees. requirement that a franchisee assent to a release assignment novation waiver or estoppel which deprives a franchisee of rights and protections provided in the michigan franchise investment act. this shall not preclude a franchisee after entering into a franchise agreement from settling any and all claims. provision that permits a franchisor to terminate a franchise prior to the expiration of its term except for good cause. good cause shall include the failure of the franchisee to comply with any lawful provision of the franchise agreement and to cure such failure after being given written notice thereof and a reasonable opportunity which in no event need be more than days to cure such failure. provision that permits a franchisor to refuse to renew a franchise without fairly compensating the franchisee by repurchase or other means for the fair market value at the time of expiration of the franchisee inventory supplies equipment fixtures and furnishings. personalized materials which have no value to the franchisor and inventory supplies equipment fixtures and furnishings not reasonably required in the conduct of the franchise business are not subject to compensation. this subsection applies only if i the term of the franchise is less than years and ii the franchisee is prohibited by the franchise or other agreement from continuing to conduct substantially the same business under another trademark service mark trade name logotype advertising or other commercial symbol in the same area subsequent to the expiration of the franchise or the franchisee does not receive at least months advance notice of franchisor intent not to renew the franchise. provision that permits the franchisor to refuse to renew a franchise on terms generally available to other franchisees of the same class or type under similar circumstances. this section does not require a renewal provision. provision requiring that arbitration or litigation be conducted outside this state. this shall not preclude the franchisee from entering into an agreement at the time of arbitration to conduct arbitration at a location outside this state. provision which permits a franchisor to refuse to permit a transfer of ownership of a franchise except for good cause. this subdivision does not prevent a franchisor from exercising a right of first refusal to purchase the franchise. good cause shall include but is not limited to i the failure of the proposed transferee to meet the franchisor then current reasonable qualifications or standards. ii the fact that the proposed transferee is a competitor of the franchisor or subfranchisor. iii the unwillingness of the proposed transferee to agree in writing to comply with all lawful obligations. i etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. iv the failure of the franchisee or proposed transferee to pay any sums owing to the franchisor or to cure any default in the franchise agreement existing at the time of the proposed transfer. provision that requires the franchisee to resell to the franchisor items that are not uniquely identified with the franchisor. this subdivision does not prohibit a provision that grants to a franchisor a right of first refusal to purchase the assets of a franchise on the same terms and conditions as a bona fide third party willing and able to purchase those assets nor does this subdivision prohibit a provision that grants the franchisor the right to acquire the assets of a franchise for the market or appraised value of such assets if the franchisee has breached the lawful provisions of the franchise agreement and has failed to cure the breach in the manner provided in subdivision. i provision which permits the franchisor to directly or indirectly convey assign or otherwise transfer its obligations to fulfill contractual obligations to the franchisee unless provision has been made for providing the required contractual services. if the franchisor most recent financial statements are unaudited and show a net worth of less than the franchisor shall at the request of a franchisee arrange for the escrow of initial investment and other funds paid by the franchisee until the obligations to provide real estate improvements equipment inventory training or other items included in the franchise offering are fulfilled. at the option of the franchisor a surety bond may be provided in place of escrow. the fact that there is notice of this offering on file with the attorney general does not constitute approval recommendation or enforcement by the attorney general. any questions regarding this notice should be directed to state of michigan consumer protection division attn franchise. mennen williams building west ottawa lansing michigan telephone number note despite subparagraph above we intend and we and you agree to fully enforce the arbitration provisions of the franchise agreement. we believe that paragraph is unconstitutional and cannot preclude us from enforcing these arbitration provisions. you acknowledge that we will seek to enforce this section as written. the michigan notice applies only to franchisees who are residents of michigan or locate their franchises in michigan. ii etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. table of contents item page item. the franchisor and any parents predecessors and affiliates item. business experience item. litigation item. bankruptcy item. initial fees item. other fees item. your estimated initial investment item. restrictions on sources of products and services item. franchisee obligations item. financing item. franchisor assistance advertising computer systems and training item. territory item. trademarks item. patents copyrights and proprietary information item. obligation to participate in the actual operation of the franchise business item. restrictions on what the franchisee may sell item. renewal termination transfer and dispute resolution the franchise relationship item. public figures item. financial performance representations item. outlets and franchisee information item. financial statements item. contracts item. receipts exhibits exhibit list of state agencies agents for service of process exhibit franchise agreement exhibit table of contents to operations manual exhibit state addendum to franchise disclosure document exhibit financial statements exhibit representations and acknowledgment statement exhibit gg list of current franchisees exhibit list of former franchisees exhibit sample general release exhibit receipts applicable state law might require additional disclosures related to the information contained in this disclosure document. these additional disclosures if any appear in exhibit. i etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. item. the franchisor and any parents predecessors and affiliates to simplify the language in this franchise disclosure document this disclosure document franchisor we us or our means etf franchising llc the franchisor. you means the person or entity who buys the franchise from us. if you are a corporation partnership limited liability company or other business entity your owners will have to guarantee your obligations and be bound by the provisions of the franchise agreement defined below and other agreements as described in this disclosure document. we were organized in washington on october as a limited liability company. our principal business address is highlands drive north-east suite pmb issaquah washington our principal telephone number island if we have an agent for service of process in your state we disclose that agent in exhibit. we do business under our corporate name etf fitness and eat the frog fitness. we began offering franchises for studios in april and have never offered franchises for other concepts. we have not conducted any other business. our parents predecessors and affiliates our parent etf fitness llc etf fitness was organized in washington on october and shares our principal address. etf fitness owns and will provide trademark license rights in certain trademarks to us enabling us to license trademark rights in those trademarks to franchisees. etf fitness also developed and owns the rights to the frogx training fitness program. etf fitness licenses the frogx training fitness program to us. etf fitness has also licensed to our affiliate tcf franchising incorporated tcf franchising the frogx training fitness program for use in tcf franchising franchised fitness centers located in washington. as of december etf fitness is a principal owner through a joint venture with a third party of studio the jv studio. etf fitness has never offered franchises for any studios or any other concepts but it may do so in the future. our majority parent etf global llc was organized in washington and shares our principal business address etf global. etf global is majority owned by etf fitness llc an entity organized in washington that shares our principal business address etf fitness. etf global and etf fitness own and will provide license rights in certain intellectual property to us enabling us to license that intellectual property to franchisees. etf global and etf fitness each also owns a majority interest in one joint venture entity that has acquired the right to develop a studio from us the joint venture studios. neither etf global nor etf fitness has ever offered franchises for any studios or any other concepts but either may do so in the future. our affiliate etf fitness canada operations incorporated is a corporation formed under the laws of the british columbia canada and shares our principal business address etf canada. etf canada offers franchises for studios defined below in canada pursuant to a canadian disclosure document. as of december no franchised studios were open and operating in canada under a franchise agreement with etf canada. etf canada does not offer franchises for any other concepts but it may do so in the future. our affiliate tcf franchising llc is a washington corporation with itsand shares our principal business address at highlands drive north-east suite pmb issaquah washington tcf franchising. tcf franchising granted franchises for fitnesshealth and wellness etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. centers under the thrive community fitness trademark offering services and classes that are different from those offered at studios including dance classes and classes geared towards senior citizens. tcf franchising does not operate any thrive community fitness studios. however it offered franchises for thrive community fitness studios between and. tcf franchising has never conducted any business other than granting franchises for thrive community fitness studios. as of december there were thrive community fitness studios in operation. we do not have any predecessors. we do not currently own or operate any studios. as of the date of this disclosure document we have not previously offered franchises for studios under the eat the frog fitness and or etf fitness names. we have never offered franchises for any other concepts but we may do so in the future. except as disclosed in this item we do not currently have any other business activities. our affiliate etf marketing llc was organized in washington and shares our principal business address etf marketing. etf marketing administers the marketing fund as defined in item and provides certain other marketing services to us our affiliates and our franchisees. our affiliate etf management llc was organized in washington and shares our principal business address etf management. etf management provides us certain personnel administrative and operational services which among other things allow us to satisfy our obligations to our franchisees under applicable franchise agreements. neither etf marketing nor etf management has ever offered franchises for any studios or any other concepts but either may do so in the future. other than as described above we do not have any other parents predecessors or affiliates that are required to be disclosed in this item. the franchise we offer and grant franchises to operate fitness and workout studios using the marks as defined below offering fitness classes and other services and products we authorize each a studio. each studio will typically be comprised of one main training room where group training and classes will be offered. studios offer a wide array of classes focusing on cardiovascular conditioning strength training and restoration. customers of each studio can purchase single classes class packages or monthly all access memberships as well as an array of fitness related and branded products. studios offer a unique virtual workout routine that is customized for members. studios have distinctive and proprietary business formats methods procedures designs layouts standards and specifications together the system all of which we may improve further develop or otherwise modify over time. we call the studio that you will operate your studio. studios will be operated under the eat the frog fitness and or etf fitness names and trademarks and other trademarks service marks logos and commercial symbols we periodically authorize the marks. you will sign the form of franchise agreement attached as exhibit to this disclosure document for a franchise to operate a studio the franchise agreement. under the franchise agreement you will receive the right to use the marks and the system to operate your studio at a site selected by you and approved by us the premises. you may not open a studio for business until a fully executed franchise agreement is in place for that studio. the area representative franchise etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. regional developer franchises under a separate disclosure document we also offer and grant qualified parties the right to be a regional developer which we previously referred to as an area representatives that to a solicit and promote the sale of unit franchises for studios and render certain services to franchisees in connection with the operation of their studios. we began offering such area representativeregional developer rights in february. area representativeregional developers operate using the name etf fitness and or eat the frog fitness names and the marks and must comply with the mandatory standards specifications operating procedures and rules that we periodically prescribe. as of december regional developers were actively operating in our franchise system. market competition and regulations studio will offer its services and products to the general public and compete with other workout and fitness establishments. fluctuations in interests and habits of the public local and national economic conditions population density and general traffic conditions affect the fitness industry and are generally difficult to prediction you may also encounter competition from other studios operated by our affiliates or other franchisees. we are one of many franchisors in the highly competitive fitness and workout industry. certain states and local governments have passed laws relating specifically to health and fitness clubs including laws requiring postings concerning steroids and other drug use requiring certain medical equipment in the club such as automated external defibrillators limiting the supplements that health and fitness clubs can sell requiring that health and fitness clubs not be unmanned requiring surety bonds if a health and fitness club sells memberships valid for more than a specified time period requiring club owners to post surety bonds or deposit into escrow certain amounts collected from members before the club opens so called presale memberships and imposing other restrictions on memberships that health and fitness clubs sell. other regulations may apply to site location and building construction. you must know the laws and regulations applicable to your studio and ensure that you and your employees comply with all laws and regulations. you are also responsible for obtaining any licenses or permits required for operating your studio and you and your employees. you must comply with all applicable local state and federal laws that apply generally to all businesses. you should investigate these laws. item. business experience joe culver president and chief executive officer mister culver has served as our president and chief executive officer and director of franchising since we began conducting business in october. since july mister culver has also served as chief executive officer and director of franchising for tcf franchising incorporated in issaquah washington. etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. bryan clay chairman and chief brand officer mister clay has served in multiple roles with us since we began conducting business in october including most recently as our chairman and chief brand officer since january. and as president and director of fitness ffrom october to december mister clay was our president and director of fitness. since january mister clay has also served as president and colorado founder of bred ventures in glendora california. since mister clay has also served as chief executive officer and founder of the bryan clay foundation in glendora california. peter vander veen executive vice president business development mister vander veen has served as our executive vice president business development since january. from october to december mister vander veen served as our chief operating officer. mister vander veen has also served as founder president or chief executive officer of several companies in alberta canada including a president of redneck drilling limited january through march and president of amp up fitness limited november to october. aaron culver executive vice president franchisechief operationsng officer mister culver has been ourserved in multiple roles with us since we began conducting business in october including most recently as chief operating officer since september as executive vice president of franchise operations since from january. to august and as compliance and finance officer ffrom october to december mister culver served as our compliance finance officer. since july mister culver has also served as directorin multiple roles for our affiliate tcf franchising incorporated in issaquah washington and inincluding as a director since july and as president since july he was appointed president. michael lauer vice president unit of studio operations mister lauer has served as ourin multiple roles with us since we began conducting business in october including most recently as our vice president of studio operations since june as vice president of unit operations sincefrom march. prior to that mister lauer was our to june and as director of operations from october throughto february. from august to september mister lauer served as a teacher for the department of education located in maui hawaii. jesse curry vice president of franchise development mister curry has been our vice president of franchise development since february. from january to february he mister curry was the ceo president of mjc associates llc in phoenix arizona. james graham director of regional development mister graham has been our director of regional development since july. from january to july he was director of prose franchising llc in phoenix arizona. prior to that mister graham was a director at massage envy in scottsdale arizona from april to december. james morris director of studio revenue etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. mister morris has been our director of studio revenue since july. from september to june he was the general manager of fitness in puyallup washington. item. litigation no litigation is required to be disclosed in this item. item. bankruptcy no bankruptcy is required to be disclosed in this item. item. initial fees initial franchise fee. you will pay us a nonrecurring nonrefundable initial franchise fee in the amount of the initial franchise fee which is payable in lump sum upon signing the franchise agreement. if you enter into more than franchise agreements at the same time the initial franchise fee will be reduced to for each additional franchise agreement you enter into at the same time after the second. if you served in the united states armed forces you will receive a discount on the initial franchise fee. the initial franchise fee is not refundable in whole or in part under any circumstances. item. other fees name of fee amount due date remarks royalty of your studio gross sales weekly marketing fund contributions currently of your studio gross sales weekly we may increase thesee item for description of marketing fund contribution to of your studio gross sales if we provide you days prior written notice. local advertising cooperative percentage of your studio gross sales as determined at time local advertising cooperative is established weekly see item for a detailed discussion about thedescription of local advertising cooperative. no local advertising cooperatives have been established. in the event a local advertising cooperative is established franchisor owned studios will have equal voting power to franchisee owned studios. etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. name of fee amount due date remarks local advertising expenditure minimum amount we designate between currently estimated per month as incurred with periodic reports to us upon request you must spend the minimum amount that we designate which will not be less than or more than per month on local advertising for your studio. the amount will depend on market conditions media costs and competition in your area. you may spend more at your discretion. this amount includes our preferred vendor monthly charge of to handle your ongoing digital marketing campaign. we may periodically require you to provide us a report of your local advertising expenditure. if any report or inspection reveals that you failed to make the local advertising expenditure required we may require that you contribute the amount of any deficiency to the marketing fund with such payment due immediately upon your receipt of our invoice. additional training fee then current charge currently per day hour day or per hour plus expenses as incurred you will pay us an additional training fee if we determine that you or yourthis fee if you invite additional employees to attend the manager training or coach training as defined in item and we permit them to attend at your cost you appoint a new operating partner as defined in item or if required by us any employees or coaches need general manager if applicable as defined in item who is required to complete the manager training and coach training you request and we agree to provide additional training oror special guidance assistance or training or we determine that you or your operating partner requestor your general manager if applicable require additional assistancetraining. general guidance then current charge currently per day hour day or per hour plus expenses as incurred if you request and we agree to provide additional or special guidance assistance or training we may charge you our then applicable fee including our personnel per diem charges and travel and living expenses. etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. name of fee amount due date remarks coach video review fee then current fee currently per video as incurred we require you or your operating partner and all otherall coaches become certified by us before teaching at your studio. we will certify coaches based on various criteria which we may change. we may permit you to offer certification programs we have approved at your studio to train your prospective coaches. if you conduct a certification program at your studio you must send us a video recording of the coach participation and pay our then current fee for review of such coach videos. reimbursement to members will vary under the circumstances but typically the cost of a membership approximately when billed note. annual meeting or conference upthen current fee currently up to per person as incurred you must pay a registration fee which we expect will not be more than per person for attending our annual meeting or conference. we may require you your studio manager and or your lead coach or your operating partner or your general manager if applicable to attend each meeting or conference. you will also be responsible for all travel and living expenses incurred by you and your personnel for attendance. successor franchise fee as incurred ifdue if you renew youracquire a successor ffranchise agreement for one year term after the expiration of the franchise agreement your right to renew youracquire a successor ffranchise agreement is subject to other terms and conditions. see item. etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. name of fee amount due date remarks transfer of our then current initial franchise fee before transfer completed we have a right of first refusal to purchase your studio should you decide to sell. anyyou or the transferee will have to pay the transfer fee except that in the event you or your operating partner or an owner withas a condition to us approving the transfer. however if you are transferring a non controlling ownership interest in you controlling owner dies or is disabled no transfer fee will be charged if transfer is to an immediate family member of you or your operating partner or the controlling owner as applicable or upon death or disability of your owners then you must only reimburse our direct cost for processing the transfer. relocation fee of then current initial franchise fee before relocation you may only relocate your studio with our approval. if we allow you to relocate your studio this relocation will be at your own expense and you must pay us a fee. audit amount of understated amounts due plus interest. if you fail to furnish required information or understate gross sales by more than amount of audit fees and related expenses within days after receiving the examination report due if you fail to deliver reports we require or understate gross sales. if the understatement is more than of gross sales you must also reimburse our audit fees and related expenses interest lesser of. per month or highest commercial contract interest rate allowed by law as incurred due on all overdue amounts and accruing as of the original due date. insufficient funds as incurred due each time we attempt to debit your business account and we receive a notice of insufficient funds. etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. name of fee amount due date remarks additional or modified marketing templates direct costs including third party service fees as incurred we or our affiliates may decide to provide you a supply of stock digital templates that we develop for advertising marketing and promotional materials. we or our affiliates may also decide to provide you modified or additional templates that you have requested. if we or our affiliates provide you any additional or modified templates that you have requested we or our affiliates may charge you the direct costs we incur in creating those templates including any fees paid to third party service providers. you will bear all costs associated with producing shipping handling and storing marketing and advertising materials created using templates we or our affiliates have provided. maintenance and refurbishing of studio you must reimburse our expenses as incurred if after we notify you you do not undertake efforts to correct deficiencies in your studio appearance after we notify you then we can undertake the repairs and you must reimburse our costs. insurance you must reimburse our costs plus a reasonable fee for our time incurred when billed if you fail to obtain insurance we may obtain insurance for you and you must reimburse us. indemnification will vary under circumstances as incurred you must reimburse us and our affiliates if any of us are held liable for claims related to your studio operations or the franchise agreement. costs and attorney fees will vary under circumstances as incurred if we prevail in an action or proceeding you must pay us our costs. testing of new product supplier will vary under circumstances but we estimate the cost of each test or inspection willthen current fee currently rangeing from to as incurred we may charge you an amount up to the reasonable cost of the inspection and the actual cost of the testa fee if you ask us to evaluate any proposed alternative supplier and we agree to review such supplier. the amount of this charge will vary depending on the type of product or service and time necessary to test such product or service. etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. name of fee amount due date remarks technology fee then current fee currently per month monthly you willwe pmay uscharge you a technology fee in connection with offering you certainfor technology support for the audio video system equipment as disclosed in item and providing youand development website and email hosting and other technology related services or productsservices. we may modify the amount of the technology fee periodically. the amount of your technology fee may be determined in part by factors that are unique to your studio such as the number of email addresses we provide you. other franchisees may pay a different amount. management fee then current fee currently per day plus costs and expenses as incurred due when we or a third party manage your studio after your default or abandonment. mystery shopper program expense will vary under the circumstances but we estimate the cost of each test or inspection to be approximately as incurred we may contract with third parties to conduct mystery shopper testing and other quality assurance inspections at your studio. you must pay the cost of the tests inspections but you will not be obligated to pay for more than third party contracted mystery shopper visits per calendar year. reinspection costs you must reimburse our expenses as incurred if your studio fails an inspection we may re inspect it one or more times to evaluate whether such failures have been cured and or conduct any other follow up review that we deem is necessary and you will reimburse all of our costs associated with such re inspections and follow up visits including vendor fees travel expenses room and board and compensation of our employees. etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. name of fee amount due date remarks liquidatedlost revenue damages will vary under the circumstances as incurredwithin days of termination you must pay us liquidated damages from the date of termination to the scheduled expiration of the then current term of franchise agreement the measurement period ifif we terminate your franchise agreement as a resultbecause of your default. damages will be calculated by multiplying a the number of calendar months in the measurement period by or you terminate without cause you must pay us lost revenue damages equal to the net present value of the balance of your royalties marketing fund contributions and local advertising cooperative contributions from the date of termination until the earlier of i years from the date of termination or ii the scheduled expiration date of your franchise agreement based on the average monthly amount of your gross sales of the studio during the full calendar months immediately preceding the termination date however if as of the termination date the studio has not been operating for at least months damages will be calculated basedor if you have been operating your studio for less than months on the average monthly gross sales of all studios during our previous fiscal year immediately preceding the termination date of all studios operating under the marks during the entirety of that fiscal year. explanatory notes. except as described in this item all fees are imposed and collected by and payable to us. these fees are not refundable. not all of our fees were uniformly imposed in our most recent fiscal year end due to individual negotiated terms with certain franchisees. we may change the amount of the marketing fund contribution local advertising expenditure and the local advertising cooperative contribution in accordance with the maximum advertising expenditure defined in note below. you must make all payments due under the franchise agreement in the manner we designate. under the franchise agreement you authorize our designated billing and payment processor to deduct from any monies it collects on your behalf all amounts due under the franchise agreement and to pay those amounts to us or to our affiliates on the due date of such amounts. we may also require you participate in an electronic funds transfer system that allows us to debit a business account you designate for all amounts you owe us on their due dates or the next etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. business day if the due date is a national holiday or a weekend day. in this event you must ensure that funds are available in your designated account to cover our withdrawals. if the amounts that we debit from your account are greater than the amounts you actually owe us we will credit the excess against the amounts we otherwise would debit from your business account on the next payment due date. we may require payment other than through our designated billing and payment processor at any time and you must comply with our payment instructions. if we cease to have access to your gross sales defined below via the computer system defined in item and you fail to report your studio gross sales when due then for each payment calculated based on gross sales we may debit your business account of the average of the last three applicable payments we debited. if the amount we debit is more than the amount you actually owe us we will credit the excess against the amounts we otherwise would debit from your account on the next payment due date. gross sales means all revenue that you receive directly or indirectly from operating your studio including pre openingpre opening mmembership ssales as defined in item including all amounts or other consideration you receive at or away from the premises and whether from cash check credit and debit card barter exchange trade credit or other credit transactions. gross sales includes the proceeds of any business interruption insurance or similar insurance. gross sales will also include amounts you earn from the sale of any online group bought deals. groupon or livingsocial and the sale of any gift cards or gift certificates calculated using our then current guidelines which may be based on the redeemed value or sale price of the deals cards or certificates. gross sales does not however include any federal state or municipal sales use or service taxes collected from customers and paid to the appropriate taxing authority. the combined marketing fund contribution local advertising expenditure and local advertising cooperative contribution will not exceed of your studio gross sales. however the maximum advertising expenditure defined in item except you will never spend less than per month on your local advertising expenditure maximum advertising expenditure. we may upon days prior written notice to you change the required marketing fund contribution local advertising expenditure or local advertising cooperative contribution. no so long as any change may however does not result in a combined marketing fund contribution local advertising expenditure and local advertising cooperative contribution greater than the maximum advertising expenditure. you must pay all travel and living expenses including wages transportation food lodging and workers compensation incurred by you or your operating partner or any of your employees or coaches during all training courses and programs. you must also pay all travel and living expenses including transportation food and lodging incurred by any of our trainers or staff we send to your studio to provide training courses or programs. if we are contacted by a member of your studio who wishes to lodge a complaint we will first refer the member to you. however if you cannot satisfy the needs of the complaining member we may address the member complaints in order to preserve goodwill and prevent damage to the marks. our right to address complaints may include refunding money to the complaining member in which case you must reimburse us for these amounts. etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. in addition if upon expiration or termination of your franchise agreement members of your studio are legally entitled to full or partial refund of any monies paid to you you will refund such monies promptly and in full and will cooperate with us to preserve goodwill with such members. if you fail to refund your members we may refund such members in order to preserve goodwill and prevent damage to the marks and you will reimburse us for all amounts we refund to members of your studio. item. estimated initial investment your estimated initial investment single unit studio type of expenditure amount method of payment when due to whom payment is to be made initial franchise fee lump sum at signing of franchise agreement us initial interior build out as incurred before you open your studio landlord and third party suppliers interior and exterior signage as incurred before you open your studio third party suppliers furniture fixtures and fitness equipment as incurred before you open your studio third party suppliers audio video system equipment and supplies as incurred before you open your studio third party suppliers computer system equipment and supplies as incurred before you open your studio third party suppliers utility deposits as incurred as incurred third parties opening retail inventory and office supplies as incurred before you open your studio third party suppliers business licenses and permits as incurred before you open your studio third party authorities professional fees as incurred as incurred third parties insurance as incurred before you open your studio insurance companies training living and travel expenses as incurred before you open your studio third party suppliers etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. type of expenditure amount method of payment when due to whom payment is to be made pre sale advertising program as incurred before you beginduring the period of pre opening membership sales third party suppliers grand opening advertising as incurred two weeks before you open your studio and for six weeks after your studio opens. third parties rent and lease deposit as incurred as incurred landlord additional funds months as incurred as incurred third parties total estimated initial investment to explanatory notes. except as otherwise provided none of the amounts payable to us or our affiliates in this table are refundable under any circumstances. all amounts payable to third parties will be paid according to the terms of your agreement with these respective third parties. the initial franchise fee is unless you buy more than franchises at the same time at which point the initial franchise fee will be reduced to for the third and each additional franchise. initial interior build out cost includes lighting flooring mirrors cooling heating systems and other costs associated with initial leasehold improvement. depending on the terms you negotiate with your landlord the landlord may contribute to your interior build out and your costs will vary based on the level of contribution of the landlord. the cost of your initial interior build out will also depend on the brands purchased and other factors. this estimate includes the costs for architectural and design plans for the studio which you must receive from our approved vendor and which we estimate to cost. the furniture and fixtures include inventory shelves clothing racks dcor chairs televisions monitors speakers specialty lighting high definition projector screens lockers and other types of furniture and fixtures necessary to outfit your studio. the fitness equipment necessary for the operation of a studio includes group cycle bikes rowing machines suspension strap sandbags and other applicable fitness equipment. etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. the audio visual equipment and office supplies necessary for the operation of your studio includes computers telephones printers cash registers scan tags sound systems ipods and ipads remote controls filing cabinets pens paper and other types of hardware computer equipment source equipment and office supplies collectively the audio visual equipment and supplies or aves. you must also obtain certainthe ccomputer softwaresystem as defined in item to operate your studio including but not limited to proprietary sales and scheduling software point of sale system software and other operating software we require collectively the computer system equipment and supplies or cses. the cost of equipment and suppliesthe computer system will depend on the brands purchased and other factors. the technology fee that we collect as disclosed in item provides for the ongoing support of all aves. the ongoing support for all cses will be provided by the respective third party vendors and is not part of the technology fee. utilities include gas service electric service and other utilities as you might need to operate your studio. utility companies may also require you to place a deposit before installing telephone gas electricity and related utility services. these deposits may be refundable in accordance with the agreements made with the utility companies and have not been included in our estimate. you must obtain state and local licenses and business licenses. you may have to post bonds in order to obtain certain governmental permits or to sell memberships before the club opens. this includes fees for legal. franchise documentation review and start up costs associated with the franchisee new corporate entity. you must obtain and maintain certain types and amounts of insurance. see item insurance costs depend on policy limits types of policies nature and value of physical assets gross sales number of employees wages paid square footage location business contents and other factors bearing on risk exposure. insurance providers may require either an annual payment or semi annual installments. the estimates contemplate a semi annual installment. these estimates also include an allocation of the premium you must pay in connection with the workers compensation insurance you are required to obtain for your employees. however workers compensation insurance will vary from state to state. you should review the rates in the state in which you are opening your studio for an estimate of the premium you will be required to pay. this includes transportation food lodging and other expenses that you orwill incur when you or if you are a legal entity your operating partner and if required any employee or coach incur in attending the ownermanager training as defined in item. this figure also includes the transportation food lodging and other expenses incurred by our trainers and staff in traveling to your studio to provide manager training and and you or if you are a legal entity your operating partner and up to additional members of your team attend coach training defined in item. these expenses may vary based on the distance traveled and the standard of living your attendees desire while attending the initial training program. other than theas described in item you may also send your general manager if applicable to manager training and coach training for which there is no fee for you or your operating partner and up to four additional persons our training fee is currently per day for an hour day or per hour plus expenses. if you or your operating partner or any employees or coaches fail to satisfactorily complete the initial etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. training program we may require this individual to attendand up to total coaches to coach training without paying us a fee though you must pay all transportation food lodging and other expenses for such personnel. the estimate above does not include any estimated costs for training more than attendee of manager training and attendees of coach training. you may also and with our approval send additional employees to attend the manager training or coach training for an additional training and we will charge you a training fee currently per day or per hour plus expenses. see item but the estimate above assumes that you do not send additional attendees. you must conduct a presalepre sale aadvertising pprogram as defined in item before you begin pre opening membership sales. you will comply with our guidelines for this presale advertising program and conduct the presale advertising program based on a pre sale advertising plan which you will prepare and submit to us for approval at least days before you begin pre opening membership sales. the franchise agreement requires you to spend at least for your pre sale advertising program though you may wish to spend more than. you must spend at least for a grand opening marketing program during the for your grand opening periodadvertising program as defined in item. this amount though you may wish to spend more than. this estimate includes our required vendor fee for presale and grand marketingopening advertising support which we currently estimate to be. the cost of acquiring or leasing a location for your studio will vary significantly depending upon the market in which the proposed site is located. suitable building for a free free standing studio will range in size from approximately square feet to square feet and will likely cost from to per year. local market conditions changes in the economy and inflation will all contribute to your real property costs. the location of the parcel of real property its relationship to and the nature of any adjoining uses and its accessibility will affect both its size and price. lease agreements vary but usually require the lessee to pay for maintenance insurance taxes and any other charges or expenses for the land and building and the operation of the studio or they may require that the lessee reimburse the lessor for its proportionate share of these payments plus interest made for the lessee and pay minimum monthly rent and or percentage rent. the lease estimate in the table above is for a month period and includes a one month rent deposit which we estimate will range from to. the rent deposit may be refundable under the terms of the lease. we must approve your lease. see item. this item estimates your initial start up expenses other than the items identified separately in the table for your studio first three months of operation including miscellaneous supplies and equipment payroll costs but not any draw or salary for you or your operating partner and other miscellaneous costs. this figure is an estimate and we cannot guarantee that you will not have additional expenses starting your studio. your costs depend on how closely you follow our methods and procedures your management and sales skills and experience and business acumen local economic conditions the local market for advertisements the prevailing wage rate and the employment levels reached during the initial period. the estimated figures shown are based primarily on the costs incurred by our founders in opening and operating other fitness studios. you should review these figures carefully with a business advisor before deciding to acquire the franchise. we do not offer financing directly or indirectly for any part of the initial etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. investment. the availability and terms of financing depend on many factors including the availability of financing generally your creditworthiness and collateral and lending policies of financial institutions from which you request a loan. item. restrictions on sources of products and services standards and specifications we have developed or may develop standards and specifications for types models and brands of required fixtures furniture equipment components of the computer system defined in item audio visual equipment furnishings and signs collectively the operating assets and other products materials supplies and services to be provided at the studio. we may approve specifications or manufacturers suppliers and distributors of the above products that meet our standards and requirements. if we do so you will purchase only these products meeting those specifications and if we require it only from distributors and other suppliers we have approved including ourselves or our affiliates. we may modify specifications for any operating assets and you will implement our modifications within days after you receive notice from us. memberships all memberships or other rights of access to your studio memberships must be controlled by a written agreement a membership agreement entered into through our current point of sale system which cannot extend for a term that is longer than the term of the franchise agreement. all membership agreements used to sell memberships must be approved by us and cannot be modified without our prior written consent. however you must make any modification necessary to comply with applicable law and you notify us of those changes. we may require the membership agreement to contain a provision under which upon termination or expiration of the franchise agreement or closure of your studio the members must agree to continue their remaining term of membership at another studio. you may only sell memberships in strict compliance with system standards defined in item and the terms of the franchise agreement. it is your responsibility to determine that you are complying with all laws and regulations applicable to your studio or your sale of memberships. we may assign memberships to you and you will be required to accept and honor these memberships. we may also establish a reciprocity program between your studio and other studios and you must comply with any requirements of this program. we may contact any member of your studio address the complaints of any member of your studio and seek reimbursement from you for any amounts we refund to any of your members. we will own all information relating to members such as member names addresses telephone numbers email addresses buying habits preferences demographic information and related information membership information. etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. designated and approved suppliers as discussed above we may require you to purchase or lease brands types or models of products services supplies operating assets or other items only from suppliers we designate or approve. if we designate these products and services are to be purchased through approved and or designated third party suppliers then you must purchase these products and services only from these suppliers according to the terms and in the manner approved by us or our affiliates. our affiliates or us may be a designated or approved supplier or distributor or otherwise be a party to these transactions. we may concentrate purchases with one or more manufacturers distributors or suppliers to obtain lower prices and or the best advertising support and or services for any group of studios franchised or operated by us or our affiliates. approval of a product or supplier may be conditioned on requirements relating to product quality prices consistency reliability financial capability labor relations customer relations frequency of delivery concentration of purchases standards of service including prompt attention to complaints or other criteria. as we deem necessary for purposes of production we will issue to you and approved suppliers these standards and specifications. our standards and specifications for products and services and criteria for suppliers are not currently issued to franchisees or approved suppliers. approval of alternative suppliers. if you would like to purchase any products services operating assets or materials from a supplier that we have not yet approved for products services operating assets or materials that we require you to purchase from designated or approvedus to consider approving a supplier that is not an approved suppliers you must submit to us a writtenyour request for approval of the proposed product and or supplier before using orin writing before purchasing any items.or services from that supplier. we will make all determinations about whether to approve an alternative supplier based on our then current criteria which may change periodically. we are not obligated to issue to you our criteria for approving alternative suppliers. we may charge you a fee which will not exceed the reasonable cost of the research and inspection and the actual cost of the test to make the evaluation. we have the right to inspect the proposed supplier facilities and to require product samples from the proposed supplier to be delivered at our option either directly to us or to a third party we designate for testing. we willalso refuse to consider and or approve any proposed alternative supplier for any reason whatsoever. we may charge you a fee if you ask us to evaluate any proposed alternative supplier. we may with or without cause revoke our approval of any supplier at any time. currently we expect to notify you in writing of the approval or rejection of the proposed supplier within a reasonable time days after completion of the investigation of the proposed supplier. if we fail to respond within days your request will be deemed denied. we may elect to withhold approval of the supplier. you acknowledge that we are likely to reject your request for a new supplier without conducting any investigation if we already have designated an exclusive supplier for the item proposed to be offered by the new supplier. we may periodically re inspect the facilities and products of any approved supplier and to revoke our approval if the supplier does not continue to meet any of our criteria. we may also charge suppliers a royalty for the right to manufacture products for use in the studios. currently you may only purchasecurrently our affiliate etf marketing is the exclusive supplier of digital marketing services otherwise neither we nor our affiliates is an approved or designated supplier to franchisees. currently you must purchase the following products and services solely from additional exclusive suppliers that we have designated studio management and billing etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. software virtual group fitness programming software virtual class technology fitness equipment design and architectural plans for the studio pre opening membership sales and marketing services and audio visual equipment from the exclusive suppliers we designate. in addition you must purchase all of your studioscomputer system interior dcor branded apparel and merchandise from our designated or approved suppliers security and door access control systems janitorial services and certain furniture and equipment. we may require you to use designated or approved suppliers for other goods and services in the future or to designate an exclusive supplier for additional items in the future. neither we nor any of our affiliates is currently an approved or designated supplier but we may be so in the future. insurance. you must also maintain the minimum insurance coverage required by applicable law or required by us for your studio. you will purchase all insurance policies at your own expense. currently our requirements include worker compensation insurance and employer liability with limits as required by law personal property insurance in the full replacement value of the property business interruption coverage and comprehensive general liability insurance in the minimum amounts of per occurrence and in the aggregate with coverage for premises liability professional liability products and completed operations employment practices liability personal and advertising liability. you must provide us with a certificate of insurance naming us and our designated affiliates and our and their respective principals officers directors managers owners employees agents representatives and independent contractors as additional insureds and provide us with days prior written notice of material changes to or cancellation of the policy. coverage must be by an insurer licensed in your state with a rating of at least. we may increase the amounts of coverage required under these insurance policies or require different or additional insurance coverages including reasonable excess liability insurance at any time to reflect inflation identification of new risks changes in law or standards of liability higher damage awards or other relevant changes in circumstances. the cost of your insurance coverage will vary depending on the insurance carrier charges the terms of payment and your insurance history. you must also carry the insurance required by your landlord and applicable law. we may specify an insurance agency or insurer as the designated supplier for this service. your obligation to obtain and maintain the policies that we require in the amounts specified will not be limited in any way by reason of any insurance maintained by us nor will your performance of that obligation relieve you of your liability under the indemnity provisions in the franchise agreement. if you fail to procure or maintain the insurance that we require we may but are not obligated to obtain the required insurance and charge the cost of the insurance to you plus a reasonable administrative fee. etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. purchase agreements material benefits and revenue collectively the purchases you obtain according to our specifications or from approved or designated suppliers represent approximately of your total purchases to establish your studio and approximately of your total purchases to operate your studio. we have not negotiated any purchase arrangements with manufacturers and suppliers including price terms for the benefit ofof studio management and billing software virtual group fitness programming software virtual class technology fitness equipment design and architectural plans for the studio pre opening membership sales and marketing services computer system interior dcor branded apparel and merchandise security and door access control systems janitorial services and certain furniture and equipment. we may negotiate additional purchase arrangements including pricing terms for our franchise system and franchisees but we may do so in the future. neither we nor our affiliates collected any fees or derived revenue or other material consideration from required purchases supplier rebates or franchisee leases in our last fiscal year ended december but may currently we receive i a rebate from our designated supplier of trx equipment equal to approximately of sales to franchisees and ii revenue from our designated supplier of marketing print materials equal to the profit on the sales of certain ancillary products such as heart rate charts to franchisees the amount of which will vary depending on the wholesale and resale prices of such products. in our fiscal year ended december we collected a total of from such vendors based on required purchases by franchisee. other than as disclosed in this item neither we nor our affiliates derive any revenue from vendors on the basis of franchisee purchases or leases. we and our affiliates did not collect any revenue from the sale of products or sales to franchisees in our fiscal year. do so in the future. we do not provide material benefits to franchisees for purchasing particular products or services or using designated or approved suppliers. we may also establish purchasing programs with certain suppliers for supplies equipment and other materials. as of the issuance date of this disclosure document there are no purchasing or distribution cooperatives for studios. as of the issuance date of this disclosure document other than an interest in us or our affiliates described in item none of our officers own any interest in any of the approved suppliers. item. franchisee obligations this table lists our principal obligations under the franchise and other agreements. it will help you find more detailed information about your obligations in these agreements and in other items of this disclosure document. etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. obligation section in franchise agreement disclosure document item a site selection and acquisition lease sections a and b item pre opening purchases leases section items and site development and other pre opening requirements section items and initial and ongoing training sections a and b and county items and opening section folio and g item fees sections armed forces europe g county a and county items and compliance with standards and policies operations manual sections d and items and trademarks and proprietary information sections and items and i restrictions on products services offered sections b county and h items and warranty and customer service requirements section east item territorial development and sales quotas not applicable not applicable on going product service purchases sections b and d items and maintenance appearance and remodeling requirements section a king and line items and insurance section g items and advertising section items and indemnification section d item owner participation management staffing sections county and ef items and records and reports section item inspections and audits section items and transfer section item renewal section item post termination obligations section item etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. obligation section in franchise agreement disclosure document item non competition covenants sections ef and fg item dispute resolution section item item. financing we do not offer direct or indirect financing. we do not guarantee your promissory notes mortgages leases or other obligations. item. franchisor assistance advertising computer systems and training except as listed below we are not required to provide you with any assistance. assistance to begin operation of your studio before you open your studio we or our designees william review and either approve or disapprove the proposed site for the studio. franchise agreement section a review and either approve or disapprove a lease for the studio. franchise agreement section b provide you mandatory and suggested specifications for your studio including requirements for dimensions design image interior layout decor operating assets color scheme and interior decorating services and provide you confirmation in writing that your studio meets our standards and specifications. franchise agreement sections county and fahrenheit approve development and construction plans and specifications for your studio before you begin constructing your studio and any revisions of plans or specifications before these revisions are implemented. franchise agreement section circa identify the operating assets including the computer system see item and other products and supplies that you must obtain and use to develop and operate your studio the minimum standards and specifications that you must satisfy and the designated and approved suppliers from whom you must or may buy or lease these items. franchise agreement sections d east and. provide manager training as defined below to you or your operating partner and if applicable your general manager as defined below at our corporate headquarters or another designated facility of our choice. franchise agreement section a etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. provide coach training as defined below to up to persons you designate as coaches at your studio. franchise agreement section a at least days before your studio opening date or on a date mutuallywe agreed upon by the partieson with you we will send a training team which may be comprised of only person to your studio to assist you with final suggestions on your studio and provide on site advice guidance and initial operations support immediately before and after your opening date for a period of no more than days which may not necessarily be consecutive. franchise agreement section b provide you electronic copy of the operations manual defined in item. franchise agreement section d provide you with a form of membership agreement. franchise agreement section circa review and either approve or disapprove your pre sale advertising program and your grand opening advertising program. franchise agreement section a and b review and either approve or disapprove your marketing strategy for pre sale membership sales and your studio grand opening. franchise agreement section folio site selection you must obtain and maintain a site acceptable to us for your studio. we may but are not obligated to assist you in the site selection process. if a site for your studio has not been selected by the date you sign the franchise agreement you must submit to us a complete report for a site you propose for your studio. we will use reasonable efforts to accept or not accept a proposed site within days after receiving your site report. our determination to approve or disapprove a site may be based on various criteria which we may change in our discretion. one of our current criteria is that the mile radius surrounding your studio must contain at least households that average a minimum of per year in household income or we will reject the proposed site for your studio. you must send us all information we require for the proposed site. we do not typically own the site where your studio is located and lease it to you. if we recommend or give you information regarding a site for your studio this recommendation or information is not a representation or warranty of any kind express or implied of the site suitability for a studio or any other purpose. our recommendation indicates only that we believe that the site and location meet our then acceptable criteria. we will designate a site selection area in your franchise agreement. unless you have our prior written approval to search for a proposed site outside of the site selection area in your franchise agreement all site reports that you submit to us must be for a site within your site selection area. you will receive no territorial protection of any kind in the site selection area. you must obtain our written approval of a proposed site for your studio before signing any lease sublease or other document for the site. we must also approve the lease for your site. our approval of a lease is conditioned upon the inclusion of certain lease terms required by us under a form of lease addendum attached as exhibit to the franchise agreement. these lease terms will include a collateral assignment of lease. our approval of a lease is not a guarantee or warranty etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. express or implied of the success or profitability of your studio. our approval indicates only that we believe the premises and the lease terms meet our then acceptable criteria. if you have not received our approval of your studio proposed site and lease within days after signing the franchise agreement we may terminate the franchise agreement upon notice to you. opening requirements we estimate that you will begin operating your studio at the premises within either i days of receiving site and lease approval or ii days of signing the franchise agreement depending on when you complete the necessary training all coach are trained and certified develop the premises meet our standards and specifications acquire the required insurance policies meet all regulatory requirements obtain all required permits and obtain the required operating assets including the computer system and other supplies and sell the required minimum number of memberships currently. we may terminate the franchise agreement and retain your initial franchise fee payment if you fail to open your studio for full use by customers within either i days of receiving site and lease approval or ii days of signing the franchise agreement whichever is sooner. franchise agreement section g you must satisfy all of our criteria before opening your studio including selling a minimum number of pre opening memberships that we designate currently memberships minimum. we may allow qualified franchisees to purchase multiple franchiseds and execute multiple franchise agreements concurrently concurrent multi unit franchises. if we grant you concurrent multi unitmultiple ffranchises concurrently we may allow you to open such studios on a staggered schedule. in such case each concurrent multi unit franchise must be opened in accordance with a schedule that we will agree on with you prior to executing thebefore you sign your franchise aagreements for those studios. assistance during the operation of your studio during your operation of your studio we or our designees william provide you additional training if you request it and we agree to provide it. franchise agreement section a certify and re certify as required your coaches using our then current criteria or not certify any coaches who do not meet our certification program unless we have approved you to offer certification programs to train your coaches. franchise agreement section a continue to provide to you an electronic copy of the operations manual. franchise agreement section d let you use our marks and certain copyrighted and copyrightable materials. franchise agreement section see item. approve or disapprove proposed advertising materials submitted by you. franchise agreement section county etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. maintain and administer a marketing fund defined below. the marketing fund will periodically provide you samples of advertising marketing and promotional formats and materials that we may develop at no cost. franchise agreement section d periodically set maximum or minimum prices that you may charge for products and services offered by your studio. franchise agreement section h operations manual. you must comply with the mandatory standards specifications operating procedures and rules that we periodically prescribe for operating a studio system standards. our operations manual contains the system standards and other suggested procedures the operations manual which may include one or more separate manuals and handbooks as well as audiotapes videotapes cds dvds computer software information available on an internet site other electronic media bulletins and or other written materials. we may modify the operations manual periodically to reflect changes in system standards. system standards may regulate among other things insurance policies participation in marketing research reporting requirements products and services your studio must offer for sale including all fitness classes specified by us as part of the franchise system the curriculum unauthorized and prohibited products and services equipment and inventory requirements listings of designated and approved suppliers and other items. the current table of contents of the operations manual is attached to this disclosure document as exhibit. the total number of pages in our operations manual is currently. advertising and promotion. pre openingpre sale advertising and grand opening marketing program. you will conduct an advertising program before you begin any pre opening membership sales. we estimate that you will spend between and on your pre advertising program. you will comply with our guidelines for thismust conduct a pre sale advertising program the pre sale advertising program during the period that you are conducting pre opening membership sales. you must spend at least on the pre sale advertising program. you must comply with our system standards for your presale advertising program and conduct the pre salepresale aadvertising pprogram in accordance with our specifications and standards and according to a pre sale advertisinga plan which you will prepare and submit to us for approval at least days before you begin pre oopening mmembership ssales. we may require you to use the advertising marketing and or public relations programs firms media and materials we approve for your pre sale advertising program. we have the right approve the type of expenditure that will count towards your minimum expenditure on your pre sale advertising program. additionally you are required to spend at least for a grand opening marketing program for your studio grand opening expenditure during the period beginning weeks before your studio opens and ending weeks after your studio opens the grand opening period. you will comply with our guidelines for this grand opening marketing program and conduct the grand opening marketing program in accordance with our specifications and standards and according to a grand opening marketing plan which you will prepare and submit to us for approval at least days prior to your opening date. we will not require your local advertising expenditure as defined below until after the expiration of the grand opening period. etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. grand opening marketing program. in addition to conducting the pre sale advertising program you must spend at least for a grand opening advertising program for your studio to take place during the period beginning weeks before the opening date of your studio and ending weeks after your opening date the grand opening advertising program. you must comply with our guidelines for your grand opening advertising program and conduct the grand opening advertising program in accordance with a plan which you will prepare and submit to us for approval at least days prior to the opening date of your studio. we may require you to use the advertising marketing and or public relations programs firms media and materials we approve for your grand opening advertising program. we have the right to approve the type of expenditure that will count towards your minimum expenditure on your grand opening advertising program. national marketing fundamental we maintain and administerhave established a national advertising and marketing fund the marketing fundamental we intend for the marketing fund to promote the marks patronage of studios and the eat the frog fitness and or etf fitness brands generally. you must contribute to the marketing fund in an amount equal to of your studio weekly gross sales marketing fund contribution. we may modify or increase tthe marketing fund contribution is subject to the maximum advertising expenditure defined below. the marketing fund contribution is payable in the same manner as the royalty. see item studios owned by us or our affiliates will contribute to the marketing fund on the same basis as our franchisees. we do not expect to use any portion of the marketing fund principally to solicit new franchise sales but the franchise agreement does not restrict us from doing so. we will direct all programs that the marketing fund finances with sole control over the creative concepts materials and endorsements used and their geographic market and media placement and allocation. the marketing fund may pay for producing video audio written materials and other electronic media developing implementing and maintaining the franchise system website defined below or related websites that promote studios and or related strategies administering regional and multi regional marketing and advertising programs including purchasing trade journal direct mail and other media advertising developing and maintaining application software designed to run on computers and similar devices including tablets smartphones and other mobile devices as well as any evolutions or next generations of any such devices administering online advertising and marketing campaigns including search engine social media email and display ad campaigns using advertising promotion and marketing agencies and other advisors to provide assistance and supporting public relations market research and other advertising promotion and marketing activities. the marketing fund may advertise locally regionally and or nationally in printed materials on radio and or on the internet whichever we think best. the purpose of the marketing fund is to maximize recognition of the applicable marks and patronage of studios. although we will try to use the marketing fund to develop advertising and marketing materials and programs and to place these materials that will benefit all studios we cannot ensure that marketing fund expenditures in or affecting any geographic area are proportionate or equivalent to marketing fund contributions by contributors operating in that geographic area or that any contributor benefits directly or in proportion to its marketing fund contribution from the development of advertising and marketing materials or the placement of advertising. we will account for the marketing fund separately from our other funds. we may use the marketing fund to pay the reasonable salaries and benefits of personnel who manage and administer etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. the marketing fund the marketing fund other administrative costs travel expenses of personnel while they are on marketing fund business meeting costs overhead relating to marketing fund business and other expenses that we incur in activities reasonably related to administering or directing the marketing fund and its programs including research public relations preparing materials and collecting and accounting for marketing fund contributions. the marketing fund is neither our asset nor a trust. we have an obligation to hold all marketing fund contributions for the benefit of the contributors and to use marketing fund contributions only for their permitted purposes described above. we have no fiduciary obligation to you for administering the marketing fundamental the marketing fund may spend in any fiscal year more or less than the total marketing fund contributions in that year borrow from us or others paying reasonable interest to cover deficits or invest any surplus for future use. we will use interest earned on marketing fund contributions to pay costs before spending the marketing fund other assets. any funds remaining in the marketing fund at the end of the year will roll over to the next year. we will not use marketing fund contributions for advertising that principally is a solicitation for the sale of franchises. we will prepare an annual unaudited statement of marketing fund collections and expenses and give it to you upon written request. we may have the marketing fund audited annually at the marketing fund expense by an independent certified public accountant. we may incorporate the marketing fund or operate it through a separate entity when we think appropriate. our successor entity will have all of the rights and duties described here. currently our affiliate etf marketing administers the marketing fund for our franchise system. we may use collection agents and institute legal proceedings to collect marketing fund contributions at the marketing fund expense. we may also forgive waive settle and compromise all claims by or against the marketing fundamental except as otherwise disclosed we assume no other direct or indirect liability or obligation to you for collecting amounts due to maintaining directing or administering the marketing fundamental during our last fiscal year we did not collect any marketing fund contributions. we may at any time defer or reduce the marketing fund contribution and upon days prior written notice to you reduce or suspend marketing fund contributions and operations for one or more periods of any length and terminate and if terminated reinstate the marketing fundamental if we terminate the marketing fund we will spend the balance of any unspent monies. franchise agreement section d local advertising. you are solely responsible for conducting all local advertising for your studio. you must advertise and market your studio in any advertising medium we determine using forms of advertisement we approve. you must also list your studio with the online directories and subscriptions we periodically prescribe such as yelp and google and or establish any other online presence as defined in item we require. you must comply with all of our system standards for your local advertising including your online presences. local advertising. in addition to your marketing fund contributions yyou must spend on approved forms of local advertising the minimum amount that we prescribe which will be between and per month per monthdesignate to advertise and promote your studio including the costs of online directory advertising the local advertising expenditure currently to. we may change the amount of your local advertising expenditure periodically subject to etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. theyour maximum advertising expenditure except you will never spend less than per month on your local advertising expenditure. we may periodically require you send us in the manner we prescribe an accounting of yourto submit local advertising expenditures duringreports accurately reflecting all local advertising expenditure for the preceding month and year to date. if any report or inspection reveals that you failed to make the required local advertising expenditure we may require that you contribute the amount of any deficiency to the marketing fund with such payment due immediately upon your receipt of our invoice. we have the right to approve the type of expenditure that will count towards your local advertising expenditure. you must advertise with at least two recommended classified online directories such as yelp citysearch google local or yahoo! local and any other free advertising medium we determine each in the business classifications we periodically prescribe and using an approved form of advertisement. if other studios are located within the directory distribution area we may require you to participate in a collective online advertisement with those other studios and to pay your share of the cost of that collective advertisement. franchise agreement section b your local advertising and promotions must follow our guidelines. all advertising and promotional materials developed for your studio must contain notices of our franchise system website domain name in the manner we designate. all advertising promotion and marketing must be completely clear factual and not misleading and conform to both the highest standards of ethics and our advertising and marketing policies. we may decide to provide you a supply of stock digital templates that we develop for advertising marketing and promotional materials. we may also decide to provide you modified or additional templates that you have requested. if we provide you any additional or modified templates that you have requested we may charge you the direct costs we incur in creating those templates including any fees paid to third party service providers. you will bear all costs associated with producing shipping handling and storing marketing and advertising materials created using templates we have provided. you must send us for approval samples of all partnership advertising promotional and marketing materials which we have not prepared or previously approved at least days before you intend to use them. if we do not approve the materials within days of our receipt of these materials then they will be deemed disapproved. you may not use any advertising promotional or marketing materials that we have not approved or have disapproved in writing. local advertising cooperative. we our affiliates or our designees may establish a local advertising cooperative local advertising cooperative in geographical areas in which two or more studios are operating. the local advertising cooperative will be organized and governed by written documents in a form and manner and begin operating on a date that we determine in advance. these written documents will be available for participating franchisees to review. if we establish a local advertising cooperative in your area you will be required to participate and contribute your share to this cooperative program. the amount of the local advertising cooperative contribution will be determined at the time the local advertising cooperative is established subject to our right to change the local advertising cooperative contribution in accordance with the maximum advertising expenditure. local advertising cooperative contributions will be payable in the same manner as the royalty. studios owned by us or our affiliates in the united states will contribute to the appropriate local advertising cooperative on the same percentage basis as franchisees. etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. we may change dissolve and merge local advertising cooperatives. each local advertising cooperative purpose is with our approval to administer advertising programs and develop advertising marketing and promotional materials for the area that the local advertising cooperative covers. if as of the time you sign the franchise agreement we have established a local advertising cooperative for the geographic area in which your studio is located or if we establish a local advertising cooperative in that area during the franchise agreement term you must sign the documents we require to become a member of the local advertising cooperative and to participate in the local advertising cooperative as those documents require. each studio contributing to the local advertising cooperative area will have one vote on matters involving the activities of the local advertising cooperative. the local advertising cooperative may not use any advertising marketing or promotional plans or materials without our prior written consent. we will assist in the formulation of marketing plans and programs which will be implemented under the direction of the local advertising cooperative. subject to our approval the local advertising cooperative will have discretion over the creative concepts materials and endorsements used by it. the local advertising cooperative assessments may be used to pay the costs of preparing and producing video audio and written advertising and direct sales materials for studios in your area purchasing direct mail and other media advertising for studios in your area implementing direct sales programs and employing marketing advertising and public relations firms to assist with the development and administration of marketing programs for studios in your area. the monies collected by us for a local advertising cooperative will be accounted for separately by us from our other funds and will not be used to defray any of our general operating expenses. you must submit to us and the local advertising cooperative any reports that we or the local advertising cooperative requires. each local advertising cooperative must prepare financial statements annually which will be subject to review by participating franchisees. your studio may not benefit directly or in proportion to its contribution to the local advertising cooperative from the development and placement of advertising and the development of marketing materials. local advertising cooperatives for studios will be developed separately and no cooperative will be intended to benefit the others. we will have the right but not the obligation to use collection agents and to institute legal proceedings to collect amounts owed to the local advertising cooperative for and at the expense of the local advertising cooperative and to forgive waive settle and compromise all claims by or against the local advertising cooperative. except as expressly provided in the franchise agreement we assume no direct or indirect liability or obligation to you with respect to the maintenance direction or administration of the local advertising cooperative. franchise agreement section east maximum advertising expenditure. the combined marketing fund contribution local advertising expenditure and local advertising cooperative contribution must not exceed of your studio gross sales maximum advertising expenditure provided however except you will never spend less than per month on your local advertising expenditure. however upon days notice we may change the amount of the marketing fund contribution local advertising expenditure or local advertising cooperative contribution while any change does not result in a combined marketing fund contribution local advertising expenditure and local advertising cooperative contribution greater than the maximum advertising expenditure. franchise agreement section folio etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. franchisee advisory council. we do not have a franchisee advisory council that advises us on advertising policies though we may to establish such a council in the future. franchise system website. we may establish a acquire or host any website franchise system website to advertise market and promote studios the products and services that they offer and sell and or a studio franchise opportunity a franchise system website. we may but are not obligated to provide you with a webpage on thea franchise system website that references your studio for informational purposes only. if we provide you with a webpage on thea franchise system website you must i provide us the information and materials we request to develop update and modify your webpage ii notify us whenever any information on your webpage is not accurate and iii if we give you the right to modify your webpage notify us whenever you change the content of your webpage. we will own all intellectual property and other rights in theall franchise system websites including your webpage and all information it contains including the domain name or url for your webpage any associated email address any website analytical data and any personal or business data that visitors supply. we have the right to maintain websites other than the franchise system website. we will maintain theeach franchise system website and may use the marketing fund assets to develop maintain and update theany franchise system website. we periodically may update and modify theany franchise system website including your webpage. weyou acknowledge that we have final approval rights over all information on theeach franchise system website including your webpage. we may implement and periodically modify system standards relating to the franchise system websites. even if we provide you a webpage on oura franchise system website we will only maintain thissuch webpage while you are in full compliance with theyour franchise agreement and all system standards we implement including those relating to the franchise system website. if you are in default of any obligation under theyour franchise agreement or our system standards then we may temporarily remove your webpage from theany franchise system website until you fully cure the default. we will permanently remove your webpage from theall franchise system websites upon thewhen your franchise agreement expiration orexpires or is terminationed. allwe may require you to provide notice of any franchise system website in the advertising marketing and promotional materials that you develop for your studio must contain notices of the. we have the exclusive right to sell the products sold by studios through any franchise system website domain name in the manner we designate. except as provided above or as approved by us in writing youor other online presence. you may not sell any studio products or services to members through any online presence or through any alternative channels of distribution. we may require you to obtain from us and use an email address associated with our registered domain name. if we require you to obtain and use such an email address you must do so according to our then current terms and conditions. we may charge you a fee for each email address we provide you as part of the technology fee see item. you may not develop maintain or authorize any website other than the franchise system website domain name url address or other oonline ppresence or other electronic medium that mentions your studio links to theany franchise system website or displays any of the marks or engage in any promotional or similar activities whether directly or indirectly through any online etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. presence except as approved by us. if we approve the use of any website other online presences or electronic mediums including social networking websites such as facebook instagram twitter linkedin or youtube in the operation of your studio or the posting of messages relating to your studio on other websites you will do sosuch online presence for your studio you will develop and maintain that online presence only in accordance with our guidelines. we may require including our approval ofguidelines for posting any messages you compose for a social networking website or commentary for any other website before you post this message or commentary. franchise agreement section g on other third party websites. we will own the rights to each online presence. at our request you must grant us access to each such online presence and take whatever action including signing assignment or other documents we request to evidence our ownership of such online presence or to help us obtain exclusive rights in such online presence. computer system at least weeks before your studio opens you must obtain and use the cses and aves as defined in item install the computer hardware sales and scheduling software point of sale system and or other operating hardware equipment and software we specify from time to time we specify together the computer system. currently we require you to purchase the following components of the computer system desktop computers and laptop ipads wireless routers brivo security system minimum cameras with digital recording and remote access viewing door access control system proprietary software programs we require currently we estimate the total cost of the computer system to be to. we may modify specifications for andy components of the computer system and you will implement our modifications within days after you receive notice from us. we may require you to purchase lease and or license new or modified computer hardware and or software and to obtain service and support for the computer system. you must pay for any additional or replacement proprietary software or technology that we our affiliates or third party designee licenses to you and for other maintenance and support services that we our affiliates or a third party designee provides. you will incur the costs of obtaining the aves and cses comprising the computer system or additions and modifications and for the required service or support to the cses. you may also be required to pay service fees to suppliers of your computer system for maintenance and support. we currently estimate the annual cost of maintenance updating upgrading and support for the computer system to be to. there are no contractual limitations on the frequency and cost of this obligation. we have no contractual obligation to provide ongoing maintenance repairs upgrades or updates to the cses portion of the computer system. as part of the technology fee we will provide ongoing maintenance repairs upgrades and or updates to the aves portion of the computer system. currently we require you to purchase the following components of the computer system aves desktop computers all running on windows or newer operating system tablet devices running windows or newer operating system printer etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. scanner hour access and membership check in hardware surveillance northern mariana islands or better running a minimum of cameras with digital recording and remote access viewing wireless routers cses proprietary software programs we require you also must enter into license agreements for the use of certain csescomponents of the computer system that we require for studios with designated third party vendors. we estimate the monthly fees for the cses to be approximately per month depending on the package we select for your studio. you must also purchase any additional equipment software or services the designated third party vendors require. you must pay us the technology fee to support the aves portion of the computer system. currently we estimate the total cost of the computer system to be between and.currently those license fees include i per month for heart rate and mobile appendix software ii for member management billing and pos software iii per month for virtual workout delivery software iv per month for loyalty rewards system dependent on setup and per month for a member feedback and review software. we also require you to pay us a technology fee as described in item for technology support and development website and email hosting and other technology services and we may change the amount of the technology fee periodically currently per month. although the future costs of the computer system or required service or support might not be fully amortizable over the franchise agreement remaining term you will incur the costs of obtaining the computer hardware and software comprising the computer system or additions and modifications and required service and support. we currently estimate the annual cost of maintenance updating upgrading and support for the computer system to be to which includes the total annual cost of the cses monthly fees. the computer system we designate will give us and our affiliates independent unlimited access to all information relating to your studio generated by the computer system including polling and price maintenance. other data generated or stored in the computer system includes customer information and lists revenue figures and invoices. there are no contractual limitations on our and our affiliates right to access this information and data. at our request you must sign a release with third party vendors providing us with unlimited access to your data. ongoing computer system requirements. you must obtain and use any computer system components that we may later specify and or obtain service and support as we require. there are no contractual limitations on the frequency and cost of this obligation. we need not reimburse you for any of these costs. etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. training initial and ongoing training before your studio opens we will provide an initial training program comprised of two components manager training and coach training. manager manager training includes training relating to the operation of a studio which we will provide at no cost to you or if you are conducting business as a legal entity your operating partner and your general manager if applicable. currently manager training consists of days of training in seattleat our headquarters in issaquah washington or a designated training facility location of our choice which may include anacortes washington focusing on the material aspects of operating a in the greater seattle area and days of training on site at your studio. we may also send our trainers to your studio to conduct any part of manager training. coach training includes training on how to perform and teach the curriculum which we will provide at no cost to you or your operating partner your general manager if applicable and up to persons you designate as coaches for your studio. currently coach training consists of days of training at youra studio in your area focusing on the curriculum. we may also send our trainers to your studio to conduct any part of coach training. we will determine the identity and composition of the trainer conducting all portions of the initialmanager ttraining program in our discretionand coach training. you may invite additional employees to attend the manager training or coach training if space allows but we may charge you our then current training fee for each additional individual currently per day hour day or per hour plus expenses. we may also limit the number of attendees for the manager training and coach training. you or your operating partner and if applicable your general manager as defined in in item must complete the manager training to our satisfaction before offering any pre openingpre opening mmembership ssales and complete the coach training to our satisfaction before the opening date of your studio. there is no fee for scheduling of the manager training orand coach training but you are responsible for the costs associated with your or your operating partner attendance including travel and living expenses. we will also provide coach training at no cost to up to ten persons you designate as coaches for your studio. is based on your and our availability training facility availability and your projected opening date. we may vary the length and content of the initialmanager ttraining programand coach training based upon the experience and skill level of the individual attending the initial training program. we provide instructional materials and resources at the initial training program including the operations manual agendas and other materials which cover information on us establishing your business day to day operating procedures reporting functions branding human resources guidelines marketing guest service procedures equipment and facility maintenance working with suppliers quality control and other administrative issues. we may also establish pre training requirements which the attendees will be expected to meet before attending the ownermanager training or the instructorcoach ttraining including study of provided materials and exams. if we do not feel that you or your operating partner or your general manager if applicable have completed the initialmanager ttraining programand or coach training to our satisfaction we may require these individuals to attend additional training at a time and location of our choice and we may charge you an additionalour then current training fee offor that additional etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. training currently per day hour day or per hour plus expenses or any other amount we designate in the operations manual. this additional training will be provided at our offices in seattleissaquah washington or a designated training facility location of our choice which may include anacortes washington in the greater seattle area. if you or your operating partner or if required by us any employees or coaches and your general manager if applicable are unable to satisfactorily complete the additionalmanager training coach training and or any training classwe require we may terminate the franchise agreement. the initial training program will occur after you sign the franchise agreement. we offer the initial training program on an as needed basis. you or your operating partner may request additional training for your personnel at the end of the initialmanager ttraining programand or coach training if your attendees do not feel sufficiently trained in the operation of a studio. we and you will jointly determine the duration of this additional training. we and we may charge you our then current training fee for such additional training currently per day hour day or per hour plus expenses for this additional training. however if your attendees satisfactorily complete our initialmanager ttraining programand coach training as applicable and have not expressly informed us at the end of the program that they do not feel sufficiently trained in the operation of a studio then you and they will be considered to have been trained sufficiently to operate a studio. if you appoint a new operating partner or general manager to supervise your studio at any time or your operating partner changes at any time he or she must attend the then current initialmanager ttraining programand coach training within days of the date of appointment and you must pay us our then current initial training program fee currently per day hour day or per hour. plus expenses. you are responsible for providing a training program that we designateapprove for all your employees other than the attendees of the initialmanager ttraining program that we trainand coach training. all employees must satisfactorily pass thisa training program beforethat meets our minimum criteria prior to providing services at your studio. we may also require you or your operating partner and all otherthat all coaches become certified by us before teaching at your studio. we will certify coaches based on various criteria which we may change in our discretion. we may permit you to offer certification programs we have approved at your studio to train your prospective coaches. if you conduct a certification program at your studio you must send us a video recording of the coach participation and pay our then current coach video review fee which isfee for review of such coach videos currently per video. we may require that coaches be re certified at any time. if we determine that you or your operating partner your general manager or if required any employee or coach is not properly trained to provide the services offered byany of your personnel are unable to satisfactorily supervise and fulfill their duties at your studio we may require thissuch persons to cease providing services at your studio and or to be trained by one of our trainers at our then current training fee currently per day hour day or per hour. plus expenses. we may also require you or your operating partner or any otheryour general manager if applicable your coaches and or certain other employees of your studio to attend various training courses trade shows ongoing education or certification programs and or webinars at the times and locations designated by us. besides attending these courses we may require you or your operating partner attend an annual meeting of franchisees and or regionalor your general manager if etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. applicable attend periodic meetings of franchisees and or meetings for regional franchisees. these meetings will be held at our discretiontimes and at a locations we designate. however any attendance at any additional training courses programs or events or any annual or regional franchisee meetings will not be required for more than four days during any calendar year. you must pay all travel and living expenses including wages transportation food lodging and workers compensation insurance that you or your operating partner or any coach or employee your general manager if applicable your coaches and or any other employees or personnel incurs during any initial training program any additional training or at anyand all meetings and or other training courses and programs including manager training and coach training. you are also responsible for the travel and living expenses and out of pocket costs we incur in sending our trainer to your studio to conduct any initial training program including food lodging and transportation. you understand that any specific ongoing training or advice we provide does not create an obligation for us to continue to provide this specific training or advice all of which we may discontinue and modify. franchise agreement section a periodically. as of the issuance date of this disclosure document we provide the following initial training program initial training program subject hours of classroom training hours of on the job training location experience on bboarding our training ssite which may be in at a location in the greater seattle or anacortes waarea. management training our training site at a location in the greater seattle area. technology systems our training ssite which may be in at a location in the greater seattle or anacortes waarea. managementpresale training our training site which may be in seattle or anacortes wayour studio pre salescoach training your studio or other open studio in your region totalstotals note the hours devoted to each module are estimates and may vary based on how quickly trainees learn the material their prior experience with the subject and scheduling. on the job training includes cross training in all subject areas of the business. etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. note we may vary the length and content of the initial training program based upon the experience and skill level of the individual attending the initial training program. note we have our training instructors a program is led by our vice president of studio operations mike lauer who has years of industry related expertise and has been our training instructorwith us since our inception joe culver who has years of industry related expertise and is of our founders and aaron culver who also has years of industry related expertise and is of our founders. other members of our team may be involved in training periodically and our training staff may also change periodically. initial on site assistance at least days before you open your studio opening date or on a date we agree on with you we will at no additional cost to you and at our expense send a training team the identity and composition of which will be in our discretion and may be comprised of only one person to your studio to assist you with final suggestions on your studio and provide on site advice guidance and initial operations support immediately before and after your studio opens for a period of no more than two days which may not necessarily be consecutive at our discretion. franchise agreement section b item. territory you will not receive an exclusive territory. you may face competition from other franchisees or from other channels of distribution or competitive brands that we control. however so long as you are in compliance with the terms of your franchise agreement we will not authorize any other person or entity including us and our affiliates to operate a studio within a mile radius of your studiothe protected territory designated in your franchise agreement. if you are located in a metropolitan area however we may reduce the protected territory as shown on the territory map in exhibit of the franchise agreement. eachif you have not selected a site for your studio as of the date of your franchise agreement we will define your protected territory is agreed to by us and youat the time the premises is identified and approved by us and you deliver a fully executed lease that we have approved. we typically define the boundaries of your protected territory as a circle with your park as its center and a specific radius of up to miles. continuation of your protected territory does not depend on your achieving a certain sales volume market penetration or other contingency. you may only operate your studio at the premises. you may not relocate your studio to a location other than the premises or open additional locations without our prior written approval. if we allow you to relocate your studio you will be assessed a relocation fee for the services we provide in connection with your relocation including reviewing and approving a new site and lease assisting with the design and construction of the new site assisting with suppliers for the new site training and other onsite opening services. our determination to approve or disapprove a relocated site may be based on various criteria which we may change in our discretion. except with respect to your rights to the protected territory we and our affiliates retain all rights with respect to the location of studios and other businesses using the marks the sale of similar or dissimilar products and services and any other activities. these rights include etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. the right to establish and operate and allow others to establish and operate other studios using the marks and the system at any location outside your protected territory and on the terms and conditions we deem appropriate the right to establish and operate additional concepts or businesses providing products or services similar to those provided at studios anywhere under other trade names trademarks service marks and commercial symbols different from the marks the right to establish and allow others to establish other businesses and distribution channels other than studios including the internetany online presence as defined in item or any whole sale or retail storessales wherever located or operating and regardless of the nature or location of the customers with whom these other businesses and distribution channels do business that including members of your studio which operate under the marks or any other trade names trademarks service marks or commercial symbols that are the same as or different from studios and or that sell products and or services that are identical or similar to and or competitive with those that studios customarily sell under any terms and conditions we deem appropriate the right to acquire or be acquired by whether through acquisition of assets ownership interests or otherwise regardless of the form of transaction a business providing products and services similar to those provided at studios even if this business operates franchises and or licenses competitive businesses in your protected territory and engage in all other activities not expressly prohibited by the franchise agreement. we are not required to compensate you if we exercise any of the rights specified above. currently neither we nor any affiliate of ours intends to operate or franchise another business under a different trademark that sells services or products similar to the services or products offered at studios but we may do so in the future. as described in item our affiliate tcf franchising grants franchises under the thrive community fitness trademark. thrive community fitness studios offer fitness classes in a group setting for health and wellness centers offering services and classes that are different from those offered at studios including dance classes and classes geared towards senior citizens. it is reasonable to expect that thrive community fitness studios will be located and solicit customers in your protected territory. there is no specific arrangement in place to resolve potential conflicts between franchisees of thrive community fitness studios and franchisees of eat the frog fitness studios. currently neither we nor any affiliate of ours intends to operate or franchise another business under a different trademark that sells services or products similar to the services or products offered at studios but we may do so in the future. studios whether franchised or company owned are free to advertise solicit and accept orders from any customers regardless of the location of your studio. there are no limitations on your ability to solicit customers in any location. however except in connection with the approved franchise system website you may not engage in any promotional or similar activities whether directly or indirectly through or on the internet the world wide web or any other similar proprietary or common carrier electronic delivery systemany online presence. you may not sell any studio etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. product or service through any alternative channel of distribution including the internetthrough any online presence. except as described above continuation of your franchise does not depend on your achieving a certain sales volume market penetration or other contingency. you have no options rights of first refusal or similar rights to acquire additional franchises. item. trademarks we grant yyou the non exclusive right and obligation to use the marks and you must use the marks asto identify your studio and to identify yourself as the independent owner of your studio in the manner we require. you have no right to sublicense or assign your right to use the marks. you may not use any of the marks as part of your firm orany corporate or legal business name or with any prefix suffix or other modifying words terms designs or symbols other than logos we have licensed to you in selling any unauthorized services or products as part of any website domain name email address social media account other online presence or presence on any electronic medium of any kind online presence except in accordance with our system standards and in any other manner that we have not expressly authorized in writing. you may not use the marks in the sale of unauthorized products or services or in any manner we do not authorize. you may not use the marks in any user name screen name or profile in connection with any social networking sites such as linkedin instagram twitter facebook or youtube except in accordance with our guidelines set forth in the operations manual or otherwise in writing periodically. you may not use the marks in any advertising for the transfer sale or other disposition of your studio or any interest in the franchise. except for the franchise system website or with our prior written consent you may not use the marks as part of any domain name homepage electronic address or otherwise in connection with a website and then only under the terms we specify. we license the marks from parentetf global which owns all rights to the marks under a trademark license agreement the license agreement. the term ofetf global entered into the license agreement began on april andon march and the term will continue for a term of years unless sooner terminated as provided in the license agreement. the license agreement may be terminated resulting in the loss of our right to use and to sublicense the use of the marks to you by mutual agreement of the parties or by parentetf global for a number of reasons including if we default on any obligations become insolvent are placed in liquidation have a receiver appointed for our business cease to conduct our operations in the ordinary course file a voluntary petition seeking protection from creditors or have an involuntary petition for bankruptcy filed against us. you and our other existing franchisees will not be affected in the event the license agreement terminates or expires during the term of the franchise. all rights in and goodwill from the use of the marks accrue to parentetf global. except as described above no agreement significantly limits our rights to use or sublicense the marks in a manner material to the franchise. the following table sets forth the status of application filed with the. patent and trademark office pto on the principal register of the principal mark licensed to you. mark registration number registration date eat the frog fitness june etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. january for these registrations parentetf global has filed all required affidavits for these registrations. parentour affiliate etf fitness has also filed applications on an intent to use basis to register the following trademarksmarks on the principal register of the pto the application marks mark serial number application date march march march etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. march neither parent noralthough etf fitness wishes to assign all of the application marks to etf global the pto does not permit the assignment of intent to use applications. therefore etf fitness continues to be the owner of the application marks though it intends to promptly assign the application marks to etf global upon final registration. in the interim etf fitness and we do not have federal registrations for the principal trademarks in the above tableapplication marks. therefore these trademarksapplication marks do not have as many legal benefits and rights as a federally registered trademark. if our right to use any of the trademarksapplication marks is challenged you may have to change to an alternative trademark which may increase your expenses. until the application marks are assigned to etf global we license the right to use the application marks from etf fitness under a trademark license agreement the application mark license agreement. etf fitness entered into the application mark license agreement on april and the term will continue for a term of years unless sooner terminated as provided in the application mark license agreement. the application mark license agreement may be terminated resulting in the loss of our right to use and to sublicense the use of the application marks to you by mutual agreement or by etf fitness for a number of reasons including if we default on any obligations become insolvent are placed in liquidation have a receiver appointed for our business cease to conduct our operations in the ordinary course file a voluntary petition seeking protection from creditors or have an involuntary petition for bankruptcy filed against us. you and our other existing franchisees will not be affected in the event the application mark license agreement terminates or expires during the term of the franchise. all rights in and goodwill from the use of the application marks currently accrue to etf fitness. after the registration of the application marks and the subsequent assignment of the application marks to etf global our use etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. and right to sublicense the application marks will be governed by the license agreement described above. except as described above no agreement significantly limits our rights to use or sublicense the marks in a manner material to the franchise. we may establish new marks in the future and you must use and display these marks in accordance with specifications and bear all costs associated with changes to marks or introduction of new marks. there is presently no effective determination of the pto the trademark trial and appeal board the trademark administrator of any state or any court nor any pending infringement opposition or cancellation proceeding or any pending material litigation involving our principal marks. we know of no superior prior rights or infringing uses that could materially affect your use of the marks in any state. you must notify us immediately of any apparent infringement or challenge to your use of any mark or of any person claim of any rights in any mark and you may not communicate with any person other than us and our and our affiliates attorneys regarding any infringement challenge or claim. we and or parent may take the action we deem appropriate including no action and control exclusively any litigation pto proceeding or other administrative proceeding from the infringement challenge or claim or otherwise concerning any mark. you must sign the documents and take the actions that in the opinion of our attorneys are necessary or advisable to protect and maintain our interests in the marks. we will reimburse you for your reasonable costs of taking any action that we have asked you to take. however we are not contractually obligated to protect you against infringement or unfair competition claims arising out of your use of the marks nor are we required to participate in your defense or indemnify you. we may establish new marks in the future and you must use and display these marks in accordance with system standards and bear all costs associated with changes to marks. if it becomes advisable at any time for us and or you to modify or discontinue using any mark and or use one or more additional or substitute trade or service marks you must comply with our directions within a reasonable time after receiving notice. we do not have to reimburse you for your costs loss of revenue or other expenses of promoting a modified and or substitute trademark or service mark. you must not contest or assist any other person in contesting the validity of our and parent ownership of the marks. your use of the marks and any goodwill established by that use are exclusively for our and parent benefit. item.item. patents copyrights and proprietary information no patents are material to the franchise. we do not have any pending patent applications that are material to the franchise. we and or our affiliates claim copyrights in the operations manual which contains our trade secrets handbooks the franchise system website advertising and marketing materials all or part of the marks and other portions of the system and other similar materials used in operating studios. we have not registered these copyrights with the united states etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. registrar of copyrights but need not do so at this time to protect them. you may use these items only as we specify while operating your studio and must stop using them if we so direct you. there currently are no effective adverse determinations of the united states copyright office library of congress or any court regarding the copyrighted materials. no agreement limits our right to use or allow others to use the confidential information defined below or copyrighted materials. we know of no infringing uses of our copyrights which could materially affect your using the copyrighted materials in any state. we need not protect or defend our copyrights although we intend to do so if we determine that it is in the system best interests. we may control any action involving the copyrights even if you voluntarily bring the matter to our attention. we need not participate in your defense nor indemnify you for damages or expenses in a proceeding involving a copyright. our operations manual and other materials contain our and our affiliates confidential information some of which constitutes trade secrets under applicable law the confidential information. this information includes specifications standards systems procedures sales and marketing techniques and knowledge and experience used in developing and operating studios training and operations materials methods formats knowledge and specifications regarding suppliers of operating assets and other products and supplies marketing and advertising programs and strategies for studios any computer software or similar technology that is proprietary to us or the system strategic plans expansion goals targeted demographics knowledge of the operating results and financial performance of studios other than your studio and all information relating to members such as member names addresses telephone numbers email addresses buying habits preferences demographic information and related information membership information. all ideas concepts techniques or materials concerning a studio whether or not protectable intellectual property and whether created by or for you or your owners or employees must be promptly disclosed to us and will be deemed to be our sole and exclusive property part of the system and works made for hire for us. to the extent any item does not qualify as a work made for hire for us you assign ownership of that item and all related rights to that item to us and must take whatever action including signing assignment or other documents we request to show our ownership or to help us obtain intellectual property rights in the item. you may not use our cconfidential iinformation in an unauthorized manner. you must adopt and implement procedures to prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information including restricting its disclosure to personnel of your studio and certain other people and using non disclosure and non competition agreements with those having access to confidential information in a form determined by us our current form is attached as exhibit to the franchise agreement. we may regulate the form of agreement that you use and we will be a third party beneficiary of that agreement with independent enforcement rights. all confidential information including all membership information is owned by us and you will only use membershipconfidential information for the promotion of your studio. you will not use or sell membershipconfidential information to any third parties and you will comply with all applicable laws governing the use and protection of membershipconfidential information. etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. item.item. obligation to participate in the actual operation of the franchise business if you are an entity you must identify one of your owners who is a natural person with at least a ownership interest and voting power in you the operating partner. you or your operating partner areare solely responsible for the management direction and control of your studio subject to the terms and conditions of the franchise agreement. your studio must always be under the direct on site supervision of you or. you or if you are conducting business as a legal entity your operating partner. must supervise the management and day to day operations of your studio on a full time basis and continuously exert best efforts to promote and enhance your studio and the goodwill associated with the marks. if you or if you are conducting business as a legal entity your operating partner do not wish to supervise your studio on a full time basis you must appoint a manager who has completed our then current managementr training and coach training to work full time to supervise the operation of your studio the general manager. we have the right to approve your general manager before he or she begins to provide services at your studio. during any period in which no general manager is approved including because the general manager resigns or otherwise indicates to us or you that he or she wishes to cease acting as your general manager or we disapprove of your general manager for any reason you or if you are conducting business as a legal entity your operating partner must supervise the day to day operations of your studio. you or your operating partner and your general manager if applicable and if required by us any other employees or coaches must complete all required training to our satisfaction. if your operating partner ceases to own at least its required ownership interest in you you must recruit a new operating partner within days of the change in ownership and submit the identity of the new operating partner to us for our review and approval. if you appoint a new operating partner or general manager after you open your studio such operating partner or general manager must complete the initial training program within days after the date of appointment. you must keep us informed at all times of the identities of the operating partner and general manager if applicable. promptly after you sign your franchise agreement and in no event later than the start of pre opening membership sales you must engage a salesperson meeting the minimum qualifications that we designate periodically the sales manager. we have the right to approve your sales manager before he or she begins to provide services or selling memberships. the sales manager is not required to attend our manager training but you must provide your sales manager a training program that we have approved in the material aspects of selling memberships. you must retain a sales manager for the entire term of your franchise agreement. if any sales manager is terminated or resigns from such position you must find a replacement sales manager within days. you or if you are conducting business as a legal entity your operating partner may not fill the position of sales manager however if you have engaged a general manager to assist you in supervising the day to day operations of your studio we may approve your general manager to act as the sales manager. if we determine that your studio is not being managed properly we may but need not assume your studio management or appoint a third party to assume its management. all funds from your studio operation while it is under our or the third party management will be kept in a etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. separate account by us and all expenses will be charged to this account. we may charge you in addition to the royalty marketing fund contribution and other amounts due to us or our affiliates our then current management services fee currently per day plus our or the third party direct out of pocket costs and expenses if we or a third party assume your studio management. during the term of the franchise agreement we may adjust the amount of this daily fee periodically by an amount that is commensurate with inflation. we or a third party have a duty to utilize only reasonable efforts and will not be liable to you or your owners for any debts losses or obligations your studio incurs or to any of your creditors for any products other assets or services your studio purchases while we or a third party manage it. if you are a corporation limited liability company or partnership your direct and indirect owners must personally guarantee your obligations under the franchise agreement and agree to be bound personally by every contractual provision whether containing monetary or non monetary obligations including the covenant not to compete. this guaranty and assumption of obligations is attached as exhibit to the franchise agreement. in addition if these owners are married their spouse may have to consent in writing to their signing of the guaranty. such spousal consent also serves to bind the assets of the marital estate to the owner performance of the guaranty. item.item. restrictions on what the franchisee may sell you must offer and sell all services and products that we periodically specify for studios. you must offer and sell approved products and services only at the premises and in the manner we have authorized. our system standards may regulate required and or authorized products and services. we may also periodically set maximum or minimum prices for services and products that your studio offers. you will use certain products that we designate in connection with providing services to customers. we may periodically change the required and or authorized products and services and there are no limits on our right to do so. you must promptly implement these changes and must discontinue selling any products or services that we at any time decide to disapprove in writing. you may not perform any services or offer or sell any products at the studio the premises or any other location that we have not authorized. you may not sell any products or services through alternative channels of distribution including the internetany online presence. you must discontinue selling and offering for sale any services or products that we at any time decide to disapprove in writing. subject to applicable law you must begin to offer and sell memberships before you open your studio. you must begin offering pre opening membership sales at least to months before the scheduled opening date of your studio but you may not begin offering pre opening membership sales until you receive our approval of your development and construction plans. you must comply with all system standards in the pre opening membership sales. subject to applicable law we reserve the right to require that you sell a minimum number of pre opening memberships before we will approve your studio to open currently memberships minimum. except as disclosed in this item we do not impose any restrictions regarding the customers to whom you may sell authorized products and services. we may determine the minimum and or maximum prices for the goods products and services offered from the studio as permitted by applicable law. etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. item. renewal termination transfer and dispute resolution the franchise relationship this table lists certain important provisions of the franchise agreement and related agreements. you should read these provisions in the agreements attached to this disclosure document. provision section in franchise agreement summary a length of the franchise term section d term of the franchise agreement is years. renewal or extension of the term section a successor franchise term of years. requirements for franchisee to renew or extend section prior written notice full compliance with the franchise agreement and system standards no more than days or less than days prior to expiration ii substantial compliance with the franchise agreement throughout the franchise term pay successor franchise fee iii maintain possession of and agree to remodel your studio or otherwise bring it into compliance with our then current system standards iv if we require you convert your studio to another brand concept sign then current franchise agreement which may materially differ from your current franchise agreement and virgin islands sign if state law allows general releases and other ancillary agreements. subject to state law vii pay successor franchise fee viii we are offering franchises in your market area.you must also maintain possession of and agree to remodel your studio or otherwise bring it into compliance with our then current system standards. otherwise you must secure and develop new premises. termination by franchisee section a you may terminate the franchise agreement if you are in full compliance with the franchise agreement and we materially fail to comply with the franchise agreement and do not cure within days after you deliver written notice of the material failure effective an additional days after you deliver written notice of termination. etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. provision section in franchise agreement summary termination by franchisor without cause none we may not terminate the franchise agreement without cause. termination by franchisor with cause section b we may terminate the franchise agreement only if you or your owners or operating partner commit one of several violations. cause defined curable defaults section b you have i days to cure insurance ii hours to cure health safety or sanitation law violations. iii days to cure other violations of laws iv you have days to cure any insurance requirements violations of other applicable laws regulations ordinances or consent decrees or monetary defaults. you havedays to cure failure to pay us or our affiliates any amounts owed seizure of assets not vacated within days virgin islands days to cure aany other failure to pay rent failure to comply with the franchise agreement or any system standard not specified in below. vii failure to pay a third party supplier within the applicable cure period. etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. provision section in franchise agreement summary cause defined non curable defaults section b i you make a material misrepresentation ii failure to open studio within days after the date we approve the premises or days of signing the franchise agreement iii failure to receive our written approval of your studio proposed site and lease within days of franchise agreement iv failure to complete the initial training program abandonment or failure to actively operate your studio more than consecutive business days or days during month period without written permission virgin islands unauthorized transfers vii conviction of or no contest plea to a felony or other crime viii dishonest or unethical conduct affecting your studio goodwill or reputation ix loss of your right to occupy the premises unauthorized use or disclosure of the operations manual or other confidential information xi failure to pay taxes xii insufficiency of funds times within a month period xiii understating gross sales or more times during the term of the franchise agreement or by more than in one instance xiv defaults within a month period or of the same defaults within a month period even if cured xv bankruptcy or similar proceeding xvi violation of any anti terrorism law xvii termination of any other franchise agreement between you or your affiliates and us or any of our affiliates xviii you receive a failing grade on or more separate mystery shopper examinations within a month period and failure to pay a third party supplier within the applicable cure period. etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. provision section in franchise agreement summary i franchisee obligations on termination non renewal sections a through east i pay outstanding amounts including the balance of the royalty and marketing fund contributions from the date of termination up to the scheduled expiration date of the franchise agreement completely delaware identify the premises including removal of signs and marks cancellation of assumed names relating to your use of any mark notifying telephone company and telephone directory publishers of the termination of your right to use any numbers associated with the marks assigning the numbers and directory listings to us cease to use marks ii close your studio for business iii remove all signage unless we are buying your studio iv cease using marks cease to identify yourself or your studio as a franchised location virgin islands cease using contact information and online presences vii return confidential information cease operation and cancel any rights or accounts of any website or online presence related to the studio or marks deliver all membership information to us and notify all members and refund those members any amounts they are legally entitled to. viii comply with delaware identification standards ix give us evidence of delaware identification within days. you must also pay lost revenue damages if we terminate the franchise agreement because of your breach or you terminate without cause. assignment of contract by franchisor section a we may change our ownership or form and or assign the franchise agreement and any other agreement without restriction. transfer by franchisee defined section b includes transfer ofany voluntary involuntary direct or indirect assignment sale gift or other disposition including transfer by reason of merger consolidation issuance of additional securities death disability divorce insolvency encumbrance foreclosure surrender or by operation of law of i your franchise agreement ii your studio or any right to receive all or a portion of your studiosof its profits or losses or capital appreciation iii substantially all of the assets of your studio or iv any direct or indirect ownership interest in you or any ownership interest in any of your owners if these owners are legal entities if you regardless of its size. franchisor approval of transfer by franchisee sections b and county you may not conduct any transfer the franchise agreementor attempt to conduct any transfer without our prior written approval. etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. provision section in franchise agreement summary conditions for franchisor approval of transfer section county for non controlling interests i transferee satisfies our criteria ii you and your owners execute transfer documents including general release subject to state law and iii reimbursement of our direct costs. new franchise owner qualifies for all other transfers i transferee satisfies our criteria ii you pay us our affiliates and third party vendors all amounts due iii new franchise owner and its owners and affiliates are not in a competitive business iv completion of training program lease permitted to be transferred virgin islands you or transferee signs our then current franchise agreement and other documents provisions of which may differ materially from those contained in the franchise agreement vii payment of transfer fee viii you sign if state law allows aand your owners and transferees execute transfer documents including general release and a guaranty subject to state law ix owners sign guaranties we determine that the purchase price and payment terms will not adversely affect the purchaser operation of the studio xi you subordinate amounts due to you xii you correct existing deficiencies in your studio of which we notify you and or the transferee agrees to upgrade remodel and refurbish your studio for which we may require transferee to escrow an amount we approve for the payment of this upgrade remodel or refurbishment xiii you provide evidence of all operation transfer xiv you delaware identify and you comply with non compete obligations. under the franchise agreement a competitive business is any business excluding any studios operated under a franchise agreement with us or our affiliates operating or granting franchises or licenses to others to operate any fitness or workout facility. franchisor right of first refusal to acquire franchisee business section folio we have a day right of first refusal and can match offers. franchisor option to purchase franchisee business section east we may purchase your studio at fair market value upon our termination or your termination of the franchise agreement at our discretion. etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. provision section in franchise agreement summary death or disability of franchisee section g upon death or disability of you or your operating partner or a controlling owner your or your operating partner or the controlling ownersany of your owners the executor or personal representative must transfer the ownership interest within months of date of death or disability. we may assume your studio management or appoint an interim manager to operate your studio. non competition covenants during the term of the franchise section no ownership interest in or performing services for a competitive business located anywhere no solicitation or interference with our or our affiliates or franchisees relationships with any studio customers vendors or clients no employment of a person employed by us our affiliates or any of our other franchisees and no engagement in any other activity injuring the goodwill of the marks and the system.members suppliers franchisees regional developers or consultants. under the franchise agreement a competitive business is any business excluding any studios operated under a franchise agreement with us or our affiliates operating or granting franchises or licenses to others to operate any fitness or workout facility. non competition covenants after the franchise is terminated or expires sections folio and g for a period of years you may not have any direct or indirect interest in a competitive business located or operating at the premises within a mile radius of the premises or within miles of any other studio. additionally for years you may not solicit or interfere with our or our affiliates or franchisees relationships with any studio customers vendors or consultants not employ a person employed by us our affiliates or any other franchisee of ours and not engage in any other activity injuring the goodwill of the marks and the system. members suppliers franchisees regional developers or consultants. modification of the agreement section i no modification unless by written agreement of both parties but operations manual and system standards subject to change. integration merger clause section king only the terms of the franchise agreement are binding subject to state law. any representations or promises made outside the disclosure document and franchise agreement may not be enforceable. etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. provision section in franchise agreement summary dispute resolution by arbitration or mediation section east on demand of either party all controversies disputes or claims between us must be submitted for binding arbitration subject to state law. choice of forum section g subject to the arbitration requirement litigation generally must begin in the state or federal court of general jurisdiction closest to our then current principal place of business currently in seattleissaquah washington but we and you may enforce any arbitration orders and awards in the courts of the state in which you are domiciled or your studio is located subject to state law. choice of law section folio except for the federal arbitration act and other federal law the law of the state of washington governs subject to state law. applicable state law might require additional disclosures related to the information contained in this item. these additional disclosures if any appear in exhibit. item. public figures we do not use any public figure to promote our franchises. item. financial performance representations the ftc franchise rule permits a franchisor to provide information about the actual or potential financial performance of its franchised and or franchisor owned outlets if there is a reasonable basis for the information and if the information is included in the disclosure document. financial performance information that differs from that included in item may be given only if a franchisor provides the actual records of an existing outlet you are considering buying or a franchisor supplements the information provided in this item for example by providing information about possible performance at a particular location or under particular circumstances. we do not make any representations about a franchisee future financial performance or the past financial performance of company owned or franchised outlets. we also do not authorize our employees or representatives to make any such representations either orally or in writing. if you are purchasing an existing outlet however we may provide you with the actual records of that outlet. if you receive any other financial performance information or projections of your future income you should report it to the franchisor management by contacting joe culver our chief executive officer etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. and director of franchising highland drive north-east suite issaquah washington the federal trade commission and the appropriate state regulatory agencies. item. outlets and franchisee information table number systemwide studio summary for years to outlet type year outlets at the start of the year outlets at the end of the year net change franchised franchised company owned company owned total businesses total businesses. unless otherwise indicated all figures in this item are as of december of each year. company owned includes the jvone joint venture studio was open as of the end of the fiscal year. table number transfers of outlets from franchisees to new owners other than franchisor or an affiliate for years to state year number of transfers all states all states totals totals etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. table number status of franchised outlets for years to state year outlets at start of year outlets opened termination non renewals reacquired by franchisor ceased operations other reasons outlets at end of year all statesari zona totals table number status of company owned outlets for years to state yea outlets at start of year outlets opened outlets reacquired from franchisee outlets closed outlets sold to franchisee outlets at end of year arizona arizona totals all states totals etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. table number projected openings as of thedecember issuance date of this disclosure document for the fiscal year state franchise agreements signed but not opened projected new franchised in the next fiscal year projected new company owned outlets in the next fiscal year arizona california colorado florida georgia illinois indiana maryland north carolina virginia washington totals as of the date of this disclosure document there are no franchises or franchised locations. list of franchisees that have signed franchise agreements but not yet opened their studios is contained in exhibit hereto. there were noexhibit contains a list of all franchisees as of december. exhibit contains a list of all franchisees who had a franchise agreement terminated cancelled not renewed or who otherwise voluntarily or involuntarily ceased to do business under a franchise agreement during the most recently completed fiscal year or who had not communicated with us within weeks of the issuance date of this disclosure document. if you buy this franchise your contact information may be disclosed to buyers when you leave the franchise system. noin some instances current and former franchisees hashave signed confidentiality agreements during the last fiscal yearsprovisions restricting itstheir ability to speak openly about itstheir experience with ourus. you may want to speak with current and former franchisees system.but be aware that not all such franchisees will be able to communicate with you. we are not aware of any trademark specific franchisee organizations associated with our franchise system. item. financial statements attached as exhibit are our auditedthe following financial statements i our audited etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. balance sheet as of december december december and the related statement of income changes in members equity and cash flow for the fiscal years ending december december and december. and ii our unaudited interim balance sheet as of march and the related profit and loss statement for the interim quarter of january to march. our fiscal year end is december. we have not been in business for three years or more so we cannot include the historical financial statements required by the ftc rule. item. contracts the following contracts are attached as exhibits to this disclosure document a franchise agreement exhibit i confidentiality and non competition agreement exhibit to the franchise agreement ii. guaranty and assumption of obligations exhibit to the franchise agreement iii. lease addendum exhibit to the franchise agreement representations and acknowledgment statement exhibit sample general release exhibit item. receipts exhibit ji contains detachable documents acknowledging your receipt of this disclosure document. etf franchising llc franchise disclosure document. exhibit state administrators agents for service of process etf franchising llc fdd ex. list of state agents. exhibit state administrators agents for service of process listed here are the names addresses and telephone numbers of the state agencies having responsibility for the franchising disclosure registration laws. we may not yet be registered to sell franchises in any or all of these states. california department of business oversight toll free los angeles suite west th street los angeles california sacramento street suite sacramento california san diego front street san diego california san francisco one sansome street suite san francisco california illinois franchise bureau office of the attorney general south second street springfield illinois maryland state administrator office of the attorney general securities division street paul place baltimore maryland agent for service of process maryland securities commissioner at the office of the attorney general securities division street paul place baltimore maryland michigan state administrator michigan attorney general office consumer protection division attn franchise section. mennen williams building street floor west ottawa street lansing michigan agent for service of process michigan department of commerce corporations and securities bureau. box mercantile way lansing michigan etf franchising llc fdd ex. list of state agents. minnesota minnesota department of commerce th place east suite street paul minnesota new york state administrator office of the new york state department of lawattorney general investor protection bureau broadway road floruit franchise section liberty street street floor new york new york new york phone fax agent for service of process attention new york secretary of state new york department of state one commerce plaza washington avenue th floor albany new yorkny oregon department of insurance and finance corporate securities section labor and industries building salem oregon rhode island department of business regulation division of securities john. pastore complex building pontiac avenue cranston rhode island virginia state administrator state corporation commission division of securities and retail franchising east main street ninth floor richmond virginia agent for service of process clerk state corporation commission east main street richmond virginia washington state administrator department of financial institutions securities division. box olympia washington agent for service of process director department of financial institutions securities division israel road. tumwater washington wisconsin securities and franchise registration wisconsin securities commission west washington avenue th floor madison wisconsin etf franchising llc fdd ex. list of state agents. exhibit franchise agreement etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. etf franchising llc franchise agreement franchise owner studio address etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. table of contents page. preambles acknowledgments and grant of franchise. a preambles. b acknowledgments. circa corporation limited liability company or partnership. d grant and term of franchise. east your territory. fahrenheit territorial rights we reserve. g modification of franchise system. site selection lease of premises and development and opening of the studio a site selection. b lease of site. circa development and construction of your studio. d operating assets. east computer system. fahrenheit pre opening membership sales. g studio opening. fees. a initial franchise fee. b royalty fee. circa technology feetechnology fee. d marketing fund contribution marketing fund contribution. east interest on late payments. fahrenheit application of payments. g annual meeting or conferenceannual meeting or conference. h method of payment. training and assistance. a initial and ongoing training. b opening assistance. circa general guidance. d operations manual. east delegation of performance. marks. a ownership and goodwill of marks. b limitations on your use of marks. circa notification of infringements and claims. d discontinuance of use of marks. east owners bound. i etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. confidential information. exclusive relationship during term. a covenants against competition. b non solicitation and non interference. circa non disparagement. system standards. a condition and appearance of your studio. b approved products and services. circa memberships d approved distributors and suppliers. east compliance with laws and good business practices. fahrenheit management of your studio. g insurance. h pricing. i employees agents independent contractors. j information security. kelvin compliance with system standards. line variation and modification of system standards. meter contact information and listings. marketing. a pre openingpre sale advertising program. b grand opening advertising program. bc. local advertising expenditure. cd. advertising by you. delaware advertising and marketing fundamental ef. local advertising cooperative. g maximum advertising expenditure. fh. franchise system website. records reports and financial statements. inspections and audits. a our right to inspect your studio. b our right to audit. transfer. a by us. b by you. circa conditions for approval of transfer. d effect of consent to transfer. east transfer to wholly owned entity. fahrenheit our right of first refusal. g your death or disability. expiration of this agreement. ii etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. a your right to acquire successor franchise. b grant of successor franchise. circa agreements releases. termination of agreement. a termination by you. b termination by us. circa assumption of management. our and your rights and obligations upon termination or expiration of this agreement. a payment of amounts owed to us. b marks.lost revenue damages circa confidential informationde identification. d memberships. east our right to purchase your studio. fahrenheit covenant not to compete. g non solicitation and non interference. h continuing obligations. relationship of the parties indemnification. a independent contractors. b no liability for acts of other party. circa taxes. d indemnification. enforcement. a severability and substitution of valid provisions. b waiver of obligations. circa costs and attorneys fees. d rights of parties are cumulative. east arbitration. fahrenheit governing law. g consent to jurisdiction. h waiver of punitive damages and jury trial. i injunctive relief. ij. binding effect. jk. limitations of claims and class action bar. kl. construction. notices and payments. business judgment. execution exhibits exhibit listing of ownership interests iii etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. exhibit premises site selection area territory exhibit non competition and confidentiality agreement exhibit guaranty and assumption of obligations exhibit lease addendum exhibit assignment of contact information and online presences iv etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. franchise agreement this franchise agreement the agreement is made and entered into by and between etf franchising llc a limited liability company formed under the laws of the state of washington with its principal business address at highlands drive north-east suite pmb issaquah washington we us or our and a whose principal business address is you or your as of the date signed by us and set forth opposite our signature on this agreement the effective date. preambles acknowledgments and grant of franchise. a preambles. we and our affiliates have with considerable effort developed and continue to develop and modify a system and franchise opportunity for the establishment operation and promotion of a fitness and workout studio concept under the names eat the frog fitness or etf fitness studios. studios have a distinctive business format methods procedures designs standards and specifications all of which we may improve further develop or otherwise modify from time to time. we and our affiliates use promote and license others to use and promote certain trademarks service marks and other commercial symbols in operating studios which have gained and will continue to gain public acceptance and goodwill and we may create use and license other trademarks service marks and commercial symbols to identify the studios collectively the marks. we grant to persons who meet our qualifications and are willing to undertake the investment and effort a franchise to own and operate a studio offering the services and goods we authorize using our business formats business system methods procedures signs designs layouts standards specifications and the marks all of which we may improve further develop or otherwise modify from time to time the franchise system. as a franchise owner of a studio you will comply with this agreement and all system standards as defined in section d in order to maintain the high and consistent quality that is critical to attracting and keeping members for studios and preserving the goodwill of the marks. you have applied and been approved for a franchise to own and operate a studio and have provided us with certain information in support of your application. b acknowledgments. you acknowledge that you have independently investigated this franchise opportunity and recognize that like any other business the nature of the business that a studio conducts etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. may and probably will evolve and change over time we do not guarantee the success of a studio and being part of the franchise system does not alter the fact that an investment in a studio involves business risks that could result in the loss of a significant portion or all of your investment among other things your business abilities and efforts are vital to your studio as defined in section d attracting members for your studio will require you to make consistent marketing efforts in your community through various methods including media advertising direct mail advertising and networking online and social media marketing and display and use of promotional materials retaining members for your studio will require you to have a high standards of quality and service you have not received from us and are not relying upon any representations or guarantees express or implied as to the potential volume sales income or profits of a studio in all of their dealings with you our officers directors employees and agents act only in a representative and not in an individual capacity and that business dealings between you and them as a result of this agreement are deemed to be only between you and us you have represented to us to induce our entry into this agreement that all statements you have made and all materials you have given us are accurate and complete and that you have made no misrepresentations or material omissions in obtaining the franchise you have read this agreement and our franchise disclosure document and understand and accept that this agreement terms and covenants are reasonably necessary for us to maintain our high standards of quality and service and to protect and preserve the goodwill of the marks we have not made any representation warranty or other claim regarding this franchise opportunity other than those made in this agreement and our franchise disclosure document and that you have independently evaluated this opportunity including by using your business professionals and advisors and have relied solely upon those evaluations in deciding to enter into this agreement you have been afforded an opportunity and have been encouraged by us to have this agreement and all other agreements and materials we have given or made available to you reviewed by an attorney and have either done so or elected not to do so and etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. you have a net worth which is sufficient to make the investment in the franchise opportunity represented by this agreement and you will have sufficient funds to meet all of your obligations under this agreement. circa corporation limited liability company or partnership. if you are a corporation limited liability company or general or limited partnership collectively an entity you agree and represent that you have the authority to execute deliver and perform your obligations under this agreement and all related agreements and are duly organized or formed and validly existing in good standing under the laws of the state of your incorporation or formation your organizational documents operating agreement or partnership agreement as applicable recite that this agreement restricts the issuance and transfer of any ownership interests in you and all certificates and other documents representing ownership interests in you will bear a legend referring to this agreement restrictions exhibit to this agreement completely and accurately describes all of your owners and their interests in you as of the effective date each of your owners during this agreement term will execute a guaranty in the form we prescribe undertaking personally to be bound jointly and severally by all provisions of this agreement and any ancillary agreements between you and us. our current form of guaranty is attached hereto as exhibit. subject to our rights and your obligations under section transfer you and your owners agree to sign and deliver to us revised exhibits to reflect any permitted changes in the information that exhibit now contains you must identify on exhibit one of your owners who is a natural person with at least a fifty one percent ownership interest and voting power in you and who we have approved the operating partner. we reserve the right to approve the operating partner. in the event that your operating partner ceases to own at least a fifty one percent ownership interest and voting interest in you you must identify a new operating partner for our review and approval if you are an entity you agree that the operating partner is authorized to deal with us on your behalf in respect of all matters whatsoever which may arise in respect of this agreement and any decision made by the operating partner will be final and binding upon you and we will be entitled to rely solely upon the decision of the operating partner in any such dealings without the necessity of any discussions with any other party and we will not be held liable for any actions based on any decision or actions of the operating partner and etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. your studio will be the only business you operate through that legal entity unless otherwise approved by us although your owners may have other non competitive business interests. d grant and term of franchise. subject to this agreement terms we grant you a franchise to operate a studio your studio at the specific address and location identified on exhibit the premises and to use the franchise system in operating the studio. if the premises have not been determined as of the effective date the premises shall be the site selected in accordance with section a site selection hereof provided that the premises shall be located within the geographical area set forth on exhibit. the term of this agreement begins on the effective date and expires ten years from that date unless sooner terminated as provided herein. you agree at all times faithfully honestly and diligently to perform your obligations under this agreement and to use your best efforts to promote your studio. you may use the premises only for your studio. you agree not to conduct the business of your studio at any site other than the premises. east your territory. subject to your compliance with the terms of this agreement we will not nor will we authorize any other person or entity to operate a studio within the geographic area identified on exhibit or within a two mile radius of the premises if no geographic area is identified on exhibit the territory. if you have not selected a site for your studio as of the effective date we reserve the right to define your territory at the time the premises is identified and approved by us and you deliver a fully executed lease that we have approved. if no territory is indicated on exhibit then you have not been awarded a territory. fahrenheit territorial rights we reserve. except as expressly limited by section east above you acknowledge and agree that we and our affiliates retain all rights with respect to the placement of studios and other businesses using the marks the sale of similar or dissimilar products and services and any other activities. these rights include without limitation the right to establish and operate and allow others to establish and operate other studios using the marks and the franchise system at any location outside the territory and on such terms and conditions we deem appropriate the right to establish and operate additional concepts or businesses providing products or services the same as or similar to those provided at studios anywhere including in the territory under trade names trademarks service marks and commercial symbols different from the marks the right to establish and allow others to establish other businesses and distribution channels other than studios including but not limited to the internetany etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. online presence and or wholesale or retail storessales wherever located or operating and regardless of the nature or location of the customers with whom such other businesses and distribution channels do business that including members of your studio which operate under the marks or any other trade names trademarks service marks or commercial symbols that are the same as or different from studios and or that sell products and or services that are identical or similar to and or competitive with those that studios customarily sell under any terms and conditions we deem appropriate the right to acquire or be acquired by whether through acquisition of assets ownership interests or otherwise regardless of the form of transaction a business providing products and services similar to those provided at studios even if such business operates franchises and or licenses competitive businesses as defined in section a in the territory and engage in all other activities not expressly prohibited by this agreement. g modification of franchise system. because complete and detailed uniformity under many varying conditions might not be possible or practical you acknowledge that we specifically reserve the right and privilege in our sole opinion to vary system standards for any franchise owner based upon the peculiarities of any condition that we consider important to that franchise owner successful operation. we may choose not to authorize similar variations or accommodations to you or other franchise owners. site selection lease of premises and development and opening of the studio a site selection. we must approve the premises and you may operate your studio only at the premises. we may but are not obligated to assist you with the site selection process. we may also require that you hire a service provider that we designate which may be one of our affiliates to assist you with the site selection process. if the location for the premises is not specified on exhibit as of the effective date then you will submit to us a complete report for a site you propose for your studio and which you reasonably believe to conform to certain minimum site selection criteria we establish from time to time. unless you have our prior written approval to search for a proposed site outside of the site selection area designated on exhibit the site selection area all site reports that you submit to us must be for a site within your site selection area. you acknowledge and agree that you will receive no territorial protection of any kind in the site selection area or any other geographic area other than your territory if applicable. your site approval request package must contain the documents and information we require including a description of the proposed site and a letter of intent or other evidence confirming your favorable prospects for obtaining the proposed site. we have the right to accept or not accept all proposed sites including sites selected using the services of any of our designees in our sole discretion. we will use reasonable efforts to accept or not accept the proposed site within thirty days after receiving your site report. upon our approval of a site etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. and after you secure the site we will insert its address on the cover page of this agreement and into exhibit and it will be the premises. you acknowledge and agree that if we recommend or give you information regarding a site for the premises or regarding the site selection area such recommendation or information is not a representation or warranty of any kind express or implied of the site or area suitability for a studio or any other purpose. our recommendation indicates only that we believe that the site and locationarea meets our then acceptable criteria. applying criteria that have appeared effective with other sites and locationsareas might not accurately reflect the potential for all sites and locationsareas and demographic and or other factors included in or excluded from our criteria could change altering the potential of a site or locationarea. the uncertainty and variability of these criteria are beyond our control and we are not responsible if a site and location we recommend fails to meet your expectations. you acknowledge and agree that your acceptance of a site is based on your own independent investigation of the site suitability for a studio. b lease of site. you agree to obtain our written approval of your studio proposed site before signing any lease sublease or other document for the site. we also must approve the terms of a lease or sublease for the premises the lease before you sign it. the lease shall contain certain provisions we require including collateral assignment of lease pursuant to the form of lease addendum attached as exhibit hereto. you acknowledge that our approval of the lease is not a guarantee or warranty express or implied of the success or profitability of a studio operated at the premises. our approval indicates only that we believe that the premises and the lease terms meet our then acceptable criteria. you must obtain our written approval of your studio proposed site for the premises and lease within one hundred twentyeighty days of the effective date. you must deliver to us a signed copy of the lease within ten days after its execution. you may not relocate your studio to a location other than the premises without our approval. if we allow you to relocate your studio the relocation will be subject to the site selection and lease provisions set forth above and will occur at your sole expense. in addition you will be assessed a relocation fee of thirty percent of our then current initial franchise fee as defined in section a for the services we provide in connection with your relocation including reviewing and approving a new site and lease assisting with the design and construction of the new site. notwithstanding the foregoing if the relocation of the studio is due to fire casualty or other circumstances outside of your control the relocation fee shall be waived. circa development and construction of your studio. you are responsible for developing the premises of your studio. we will give you mandatory and suggested specifications for your studio including requirements for dimensions design image interior layout decor fixtures equipment signs furnishings and color scheme. these plans might not reflect the requirements of any federal state or local law code or regulation including those arising under the americans with disabilities act the ada or etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. similar rules governing public accommodations for persons with disabilities. it is your responsibility to confirm all required construction plans and specifications comply with the ada and similar rules governing public accommodations for persons with disabilities other applicable ordinances building codes permit requirements and lease requirements and restrictions. you agree to retain at your expense an architect to produce development plans for your studio. you also agree to obtain a minimum of three construction bids from contractors before you begin construction on the premises. we may recommend contractors but you are not obligated to select the contractor that we recommend. however we reserve the right require you to use one of our approved architects. you must send us your development and construction plans and specifications for review and approval before you begin constructing your studio. you must send us any revisions of plans or specifications before such revisions are implemented. our review is limited to ensuring your compliance with our design requirements and does not assess compliance with federal state or local laws and regulations including the ada. ensuring that your studio complies with these laws is your responsibility. we may enter and inspect the premises while you are developing your studio. before your studio opening you agree to do the following at your own expense secure all financing required to develop and operate your studio and acquire and maintain adequate capital reserves obtain all required building utility sign health sanitation business and other permits and licenses necessary to operate your studio at the premises construct all required improvements to the premises and decorate your studio according to plans and specifications approved by us and in accordance with the requirements of the lease purchase or lease and install all required fixtures furniture equipment components of the computer system as defined in section edward audio visual equipment and software furnishings and signs collectively operating assets for your studio obtain all customary contractors sworn statements and partial and final waivers of lien for construction remodeling decorating and installation services and purchase an opening inventory of authorized and approved products materials and supplies to operate your studio. d operating assets. you agree to use in operating your studio only those operating assets that we approve for studios as meeting our specifications and standards for quality design appearance function and performance. you agree to place or display at your studio interior and exterior only the signs emblems lettering logos and display materials that we approve including the computer etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. hardware sales and scheduling software point of sale system and or other operating hardware equipment and software we specify from time to time the computer system. you agree to purchase or lease approved brands types or models of operating assets only from suppliers we designate or approve which may include or be limited to us and or our affiliates. without limiting the generality of the preceding paragraph you must use the audio visual equipment and software that we specify from time to time including sound systems routers video monitors video transmission software and video recorders. we may modify the specifications for and components of such audio visual equipment and softwareany operating assets from time to time. you agree to implement our modificationsalthough we cannot estimate the future costs of any operating assets and although these costs might not be fully amortizable over this agreement remaining term you agree to incur the costs of obtaining the all operating assets or additions and modifications and or implement any modifications to any operating assets at your cost within ninety days after you receive notice from us. you agree to purchase or lease approved audio visual equipment and softwareany operating assets only from suppliers we designate or approve which may include or be limited to us and or our affiliates. east computer system. you agree to obtain and use the ccomputer hardware sales and scheduling software point of sale system and or other operating softwaresystem we specify from time to time the computer system. we may modify specifications for and components of the computer system from time to time and you agree to implement our modifications within ninety days after you receive notice from us. we might periodically require you to purchase lease and or license new or modified computer hardware and or software and to obtain service and support for the computer system. you must pay for any additional or replacement proprietary software or technology that we our affiliates or third party designee licenses to you and for other maintenance and support services that we our affiliates or a third party designee provides during this agreement term. although we cannot estimate the future costs of the computer system or required service or support and although these costs might not be fully amortizable over this agreement remaining term you agree to incur the costs of obtaining the computer hardware and software comprising the computer system or additions and modifications and required service or support. at least four weeks before your studio opens you agree to obtain the computer system components that we designate and to ensure that your computer system as modified is functioning properly. you agree that we or our affiliates may condition the license of any additional or replacement proprietary software to you or your use of additional technology that we or our affiliates develop or maintain on your signing the form of license agreement or similar document that we or our affiliates prescribe at such time to regulate your use of and our and your respective rights and responsibilities with respect to such additional or replacement software or technology. you acknowledge and agree that the computer system may give us and our affiliates independent unlimited access to all information generated by the computer system including polling price maintenance and membership information as defined in etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. section. at our request you agree to sign a release with any vendorsupplier of your computer system providing us with unlimited access to your data. despite the fact that you agree to buy license use and maintain the computer system according to our standards and specifications you will have sole and complete responsibility for the acquisition operation maintenance and upgrading of the computer system maintaining connectivity of your computer system including the point of sale system at all times the manner in which your computer system interfaces with our and any third party computer system and any and all consequences if the computer system is not properly operated maintained and upgraded. fahrenheit pre opening membership sales. subject to applicable law you must begin to offer and sell memberships as defined in section county before the opening date defined in section g below of your studio. these sales are referred to as pre opening membership sales. you must begin offering pre opening membership sales at least sixtyfour daysto six months before the scheduled opening date of your studio provided however you may not begin offering pre opening membership sales until you receive our approval of your development and construction plans. as described in section system standards you must comply with this agreement and all system standards in the pre opening membership sales process. you assume all risks responsibilities and liabilities associated with pre opening membership sales and you agree to indemnify and hold us harmless from any claims associated with such activities as set forth in section d of this agreement. and comply with all of your obligations under section a for the pre sale advertising program. subject to applicable law we reserve the right to require that you sell a minimum number of pre opening memberships before we will approve your studio to open. you are responsible for ensuring that your pre opening membership sales comply with all applicable laws and other legal requirements which may include laws pertaining to bonding and the establishment of escrow accounts. you will be liable to the applicable legal authorities if you fail to comply with applicable laws. your failure to comply with such applicable laws also constitutes a material default under this agreement. you assume all risks responsibilities and liabilities associated with pre opening membership sales and you agree to indemnify and hold us harmless from any claims associated with such activities as set forth in section d of this agreement. g studio opening. you agree not to open your studio until we notify you in writing that your studio meets our standards and specifications although our acceptance is not a representation or warranty express or implied that your studio complies with any engineering licensing environmental labor health building fire sanitation occupational landlord insurance safety tax governmental or other statutes laws ordinances rules regulations requirements or etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. recommendations nor a waiver of our right to require continuing compliance with our requirements standards or policies you or your operating partner satisfactorily complete manager training as defined in section a and your coaches have completed all coach training as defined in section a and obtained any certification we may require you pay the initial franchise fee and all other amounts then due to us you give us certificates for all required insurance policies as described in section g your coaches have completed all training we require for coaches and obtained any certification we may require you obtain the required supplies and opening inventory for your studio and you meet all regulatory requirements including all state and local professional regulations. and you sell the minimum number of pre sale memberships that we designate for your studio. subject to your compliance with these conditions you agree to open your studio for full use by members within either i days after site and lease approval or ii days after the effective date whichever occurs firsts. the date that your studio first opens for business shall be referred to herein as the opening date. fees. a initial franchise fee. you agree to pay us a nonrecurring nonrefundable initial franchise fee in the amount of thirty nine thousand dollars the initial franchise fee provided however if you enter into more than two franchise agreements at the same time the initial franchise fee will be reduced to for each additional franchise agreement you enter into after the second. the initial franchise fee is due and fully earned by us when you sign this agreement. you must pay us the initial franchise fee by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account we designate or by any other method we specify. b royalty fee. you agree to pay us on the day of the week that we specify from time to time in the manner provided below or as the operations manual otherwise prescribes a weekly royalty fee the royalty equal to seven percent of your studio gross sales during the preceding week. etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. for purposes of this agreement gross sales means all revenue or other consideration that you receive directly or indirectly from operating your studio including pre opening membership sales including all revenue or other consideration you receive at or away from the premises and whether from cash check credit and debit card barter exchange trade credit or other credit transactions. gross sales includes the proceeds of any business interruption insurance or similar insurance. if we authorize or require participation in online group bought deals. groupon or living social gift certificate and or gift card programs the payments you receive for those online group bought deals gift certificates or gift cards shall be included in gross sales in accordance with our then current guidelines for calculating gross sales which may include calculating such amounts at our option as either i the purchasing value of such the certificate card or deal when it is redeemed at your studio or ii the amount of the payment you received for such certificate card or deal at the time of its sale. gross sales does not include any federal state or municipal sales use or service taxes collected from members and paid to the appropriate taxing authority. circa technology feetechnology fee. you will pay us as a technology fee in connection with offering you technology support developing or licensing proprietary software and providing you other technology related services or products. we may require you to pay a fee to us or a service provider we designate which may be one of our affiliates for technology related services including website or email hosting help desk support software or website development enterprise solutions and other services associated with your computer system as defined in section b and or any franchise system website as defined in section g your technology fee. we may modify the amount of your technology fee periodically in our discretion. the technology fee is in addition to all direct out of pocket costs you must otherwise incur under the terms of this agreement or the operations manual to acquire maintain or service your computer system. you must pay the technology fee at the times and in the manner designated by the provider of such services. we may require you to enter into a written agreement with the provider of any technology services with terms and conditions we approve or require. the amount of your technology fee may be determined in part by factors that are unique to your studio such as the number of email addresses we provide you and your employees. you acknowledge and agree that different franchise owners may pay different technology fees based on their businesses. d marketing fund contributionmarketing fund contribution. you must contribute to the marketing fund as defined in section. belowe in an amount equal to one percent of your studio gross sales during the preceding week the marketing fund contribution provided however we may increase the marketing fund contribution to two percent of your studio gross sales during the preceding week upon providing you thirty days prior written noticefrom time to time subject to your maximum etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. advertising expenditure as defined in section g the marketing fund contribution is payable in the same manner as the royalty and is not refundable under any circumstances. east interest on late payments. all amounts which you owe us for any reason will bear interest accruing as of their original due date at one and one half percent. per month or the highest commercial contract interest rate the law allows whichever is less. we may debit your bank account automatically for service charges and interest. you acknowledge that this section county is not our agreement to accept any payments after they are due or our commitment to extend credit to or otherwise finance your operation of your studio. fahrenheit application of payments. despite any designation you make we may apply any of your payments to any of your past due indebtedness to us. we may set off any amounts you or your owners owe us or our affiliates against any amounts we or our affiliates owe you or your owners. you may not withhold payment of any amounts you owe us due to our alleged nonperformance of any of our obligations under this agreement. g annual meeting or conferenceannual meeting or conference. you must attend any and all meetings we designate as mandatory which may include semi annual meetings whether regional or national and annual meetings. you shall pay to us or our designee all required registration fees in the amount we specify not to exceed per registration fee. you will be responsible for all travel and living expenses incurred by you and your personnel for attendance. h method of payment. you must make all payments due under this agreement in the manner we designate and you agree to comply with all of our payment instructions. you hereby authorize our designated billing and payment processor to deduct from any monies it collects on your behalf all amounts due under this agreement and to pay those amounts to us or to our affiliates on the due date of such amounts. notwithstanding the foregoing we reserve the right to require you to pay all amounts due under this agreement by direct debit and you hereby authorize us and or any third party we designate to debit your business checking account automatically for any or all amounts due under this agreement the eft authorization. you agree to execute and deliver to us any document we require to evidence the eft authorization. the eft authorization will remain in full force and effect during the term of this agreement. we or our designee will debit the business account you designate in the eft authorization for amounts you owe us on their due dates or the subsequent business day if the due date is a national holiday or a weekend day. you agree to ensure that funds are available in your designated account to cover our etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. withdrawals. you shall pay us a fee of one hundred dollars each time we attempt to debit your business account and we receive a notice of insufficient funds. we may receive information regarding your gross sales through our access to the computer system or we may require you to submit weekly gross sales reports in the format we require. if we ever stop having access to this information and you fail to report your studio gross sales when due then for each payment calculated based on gross sales we may debit your business account one hundred ten percent of the average of the last three applicable payments that we debited. if the amounts that we debit from your business account are less than the amounts you actually owe us once we have determined your studio true and correct gross sales we will debit your business account for the balance on the day we specify. if the amounts that we debit from your business account are greater than the amounts you actually owe us we will credit the excess against the amounts we otherwise would debit from your business account on the next payment due date. training and assistance. a initial and ongoing training. weprior to opening your studio at no cost to you we will provide training relating to the operation of a studio manager training to you or if you are conducting business as an entity your operating partner and your general manager if applicable and as defined in section fahrenheit additionallyat no cost to you we will also provide training on how to perform and teach the curriculum as defined in section b coach training to you or if you are conducting business as an entity your operating partner your general manager if applicable and up to ten persons you designate as coaches for your studio. we will determine the identity and composition of the trainer conducting all portions of the manager training and coach training in our discretion. you may invite additional employees to attend the manager training or coach training if space allows though we reserve the right to charge you our then current training fee for each additional individual. we reserve the right tomay also limit the number of attendees for the manager training and coach training. we will determine the identity and composition of the trainer conducting all portions of the manager training and coach training in our discretion. we will provide the manager training and coach training at the times and locations we determine in our sole discretion which may include sending our trainer to your studio to conduct any part of the manager training or coach training. we shallwill also determine in our sole discretion the length and content of the manager training and coach training. we reserve the right to vary the manager training and coach training based uponon the experience and skill level of the individual attending. you or if you are conducting business as an entity your operating partner and your general manager if applicable must satisfactorily complete the manager training prior to beginning pre opening membership sales and must satisfactorily complete the coach training prior to the opening date. scheduling of the manager ttraining and coach training is based on your and our availability training facility availability and the projected oopening ddate for your studio. etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. if we determine that you or if you are conducting business as an entity your operating partner or your general manager if applicable fails to satisfactorily complete the required manager training and or coach training then we reserve the right in our sole discretion to require such individual to attend additional training at a time and location of our choice and we will charge you our then current training fee for such additional training. additionall training will be provided at our offices in seattle washington or another designated training facility of our choice which may include without limitation anacortes washington if you ory if you or if you are conducting business as an entity your operating partner and your general manager if applicable are unable to satisfactorily complete the manager training coach training or additional required and or any other training as applicable we require we reserve the right in our sole discretion to terminate this agreement. you are responsible for providing a training program for all your employees other than the attendees of the manager training and coach training. all employees must satisfactorily pass thea training program that meets our minimum criteria prior to providing services at your studio. we also reserve the right to require you or your operating partner and all otherthat all coaches become certified by us before teaching at your studio. we will certify coaches based on various criteria which we may change in our discretion. we may permit you to offer certification programs we have approved at your studio to train your prospective coaches. if you conduct a certification program at your studio you must send us a video recording of the coach participation and pay our then current fee for review of such coach videos the coach video review fee. we also reserve the right to require re certification for coaches at any time. and from time to time. if we determine in our sole discretion that you or your operating partner or any employee or coach is not properly trained to provide the services offered byat any time determine that any of your personnel are unable to satisfactorily supervise and fulfill their duties at your studio we may require such persons to cease providing services at your studio and or to be trained usby one of our trainers at our then current training fee. if you appoint a new general manager to supervise your studio at any time or your operating partner changes at any time he or she must attend the then current manager training and coach training as applicable within thirty days of the appointment date and you shallmust pay our then current training fee for such attendance. you or your operating partner may request additional training for your personnel at the end of manager training and or coach training if your attendees do not feel sufficiently trained in the operation of a studio. we and you will jointly determine the duration of this additional training and we reserve the right to charge you our then current training fee for such additional training. however if your attendees satisfactorily complete our manager training and coach training as applicable and have not expressly informed us at the end of the program that they do not feel sufficiently trained in the operation of a studio then you and they will be deemed to have been trained sufficiently to operate a studio. we may require you or if you are conducting business as an entity your operating partner any employee oryour general manager if applicable your coaches and or certain other employees of your studio to attend various training courses trade shows ongoing education or certification programs and or webinars at the times and locations designated by us. etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. besides attending these training courses programs and events we may additionally require you or if you are conducting business as an entity your operating partner or your general manager if applicable to attend an annualperiodic meetings of franchise owners and or meetings for regional franchise owners. these meetings will be held at our discretion and at locations we designate. however any attendance at any additional training courses programs or events or any annual or regional franchise owner meetings will not be required for more than four days during a calendar year. you agree to pay all travel and living expenses including wages transportation food lodging and workers compensation insurance that you or if you are conducting business as an entity your operating partner or any your general manager if applicable your coaches and or any other employees or coachpersonnel incurs during any and all meetings and or training courses and programs including manager training and coach training. you are also responsible for the travel and living expenses and out of pocket costs we incur in sending our trainer to your studio to conduct training including food lodging and transportation. you understand and agree that any specific ongoing training or advice we provide does not create an obligation whether by course of dealing or otherwise to continue to provide such specific training or advice all of which we may discontinue and modify from time to time. b opening assistance. at least three days before your opening date or on a date mutually agreed upon by the parties we will at no additional cost to you and at our expense send a training team the identity and composition of which shall be in our discretion and may be comprised of only one person to your studio to assist you with final suggestions on your studio and provide on site advice guidance and initial operations support immediately before and after your opening date for a period of no more than two days which may not necessarily be consecutive at our discretion. circa general guidance. we may advise you from time to time regarding your studio operation based on your reports or our inspections and may guide you with respect to standards specifications and operating procedures and methods that studios use including facility appearance guest service procedures and quality control equipment and facility maintenance class offerings and schedules advertising marketing and branding strategies and administrative accounting reporting and record retention. such guidance will be furnished in the form of our operations manual for the operation of studios collectively the operations manual which may include one or more separate manuals as well as audiotapes videotapes cds dvds computer software information available on an internet site other electronic media bulletins and or other written materials collectively the operations manual. we may also provide guidance via telephonic conversations and or consultation at our offices. if you request and we agree to provide additional or special guidance assistance or training we may charge you our then applicable fee including our personnel per diem charges and travel and living expenses. we reserve the right to periodically visit the premises and evaluate your studio. etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. d operations manual. during the term of this agreement we will provide you online access to the operations manual in an electronic format via a restricted website intranet or via other electronic means including by sending to you via mail. at our option we may make some or all of the operations manual available through an online presence. if we do so you agree to monitor and access that online presence for any updates to the operations manual or system standards. any passwords or other digital identification necessary to access the operations manual on any online presence will be deemed to be part of confidential information as defined in section. we reserve the right to loan to you a hard copy of the operations manual in which case you agree to keep the operations manual in a secure place on the premises and return such hard copy to us on demand or in any case upon termination or expiration of this agreement. the operations manual contains mandatory specifications standards operating procedures and rules that we periodically prescribe for operating a studio system standards and other recommended or suggested procedures and information on your other obligations under this agreement. we may modify the operations manual periodically to reflect changes in system standards. if there is a dispute over its contents our master copy of the operations manual shall control. you agree that the operations manual contents are confidential and that you will not disclose the operations manual to any person other than any employee or coach of your studio who needs to know its contents to perform its duties. you may not at any time copy duplicate record or otherwise reproduce any part of the operations manual. although we generally provide online access to the operations manuals the operations manuals may also consist of one or more separate manuals or handbooks as well as videotapes dvds cds computer software and or other written materials and other materials and intangibles as may be modified added to replaced or supplemented by us from time to time in our sole discretion whether by way of supplements replacement pages franchise bulletins or other official pronouncements or means. you agree to monitor and access the website any applicable intranet site and or your mail account for any updates to the operations manuals. any passwords or other digital identifications necessary to access the operations manuals on a website or intranet will be deemed to be part of confidential information as defined in section below. east delegation of performance. you agree that we have the right to delegate the performance of any portion or all of our obligations under this agreement to third party designees whether these designees are our agents or independent contractors with whom we have contracted to perform these obligations. if we do so such third party designees will be obligated to perform the delegated functions for you in compliance with this agreement. etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. marks. a ownership and goodwill of marks. your right to use the marks is derived only from this agreement and limited to your operating your studio according to this agreement and all system standards we prescribe during its term. your unauthorized use of the marks is a breach of this agreement and infringes our and our affiliates rights in the marks. you acknowledge and agree that any unauthorized use of the marks will cause us and our affiliates irreparable harm for which there is no adequate remedy at law and will entitle us and our affiliates to injunctive relief. you acknowledge and agree that your use of the marks and any goodwill established by that use are exclusively for our and our affiliates benefit and that this agreement does not confer any goodwill or other interests in the marks upon you other than the right to operate your studio under this agreement. all provisions of this agreement relating to the marks apply to any additional proprietary trade and service marks we authorize you to use. you may not at any time during or after this agreement term contest or assist any other person in contesting the validity or our and our affiliates ownership of the marks. b limitations on your use of marks. you agree to use the marks to identify your studio and to identify yourself as the independent owner of your studio in the manner we prescribe. you have no right to sublicense or assign your right to use the marks. you may not use any mark as part of any corporate or legal business name with any prefix suffix or other modifying words terms designs or symbols other than logos we have licensed to you in selling any unauthorized services or products as part of any website domain name homepage electronic address or otherwise in connection with a website in any user name screen name or profile in connection with any social networking sites such as but not limited to linkedin twitter facebook instagram pinterest or youtubeemail address social media account other online presence or presence on any electronic medium of any kind online presence except in accordance with our guidelines set forth in the operations manual or otherwise consented to in writing from time to timesystem standards and in any other manner that we have not expressly authorized in writing. except in conjunction with the franchise system website as defined in section g or with our prior written consent you may not use any mark as part of any domain name homepage electronic address or otherwise in connection with a website and then only on the terms we specify. you may not use any mark in advertising the transfer sale or other disposition of your studio or an ownership interest in you without our prior written consent which we will not unreasonably withhold. you agree to display the marks prominently as we prescribe at your studio and on forms advertising supplies employee uniforms and other materials we designate. you agree to give the notices of trade and service mark registrations that we specify and to obtain any fictitious or assumed name registrations required under applicable law. etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. circa notification of infringements and claims. you agree to notify us immediately of any apparent infringement or challenge to your use of any mark or of any person claim of any rights in any mark and not to communicate with any person other than us our attorneys and your attorneys regarding any infringement challenge or claim. we and or our affiliate may take the action we deem appropriate including no action and control exclusively any litigation. patent and trademark office proceeding or other administrative proceeding arising from any infringement challenge or claim or otherwise concerning any mark. you agree to sign any documents and take any other reasonable action that in the opinion of our attorneys are necessary or advisable to protect and maintain our interests in any litigation or patent and trademark office or other proceeding or otherwise to protect and maintain our interests in the marks. we will reimburse you for your reasonable costs of taking any action that we have asked you to take. d discontinuance of use of marks. if it becomes advisable at any time for us and or you to modify or discontinue using any mark and or to use one or more additional or substitute trade or service marks you agree to comply with our directions within a reasonable time after receiving notice. we are not required to reimburse you for any costs or expenses associated with making such changes for any loss of revenue due to any modified or discontinued mark or for your expenses of promoting a modified or substitute trademark or service mark. our rights in this section d apply to any and all of the marks and any portion of any mark that we authorize you to use in this agreement. we may exercise these rights at any time and for any reason business or otherwise that we think best. you acknowledge both our right to take this action and your obligation to comply with our directions. east owners bound. unless otherwise specified each and every one of your obligations to take or refrain from taking specific actions or to engage or refrain from engaging in specific activities set forth in this section shall also apply to each of your owners. confidential information. we possess and will continue to develop and acquire certain confidential information some of which constitutes trade secrets under applicable law the confidential information relating to developing and operating studios including training and operations materials and manuals including the operations manual the system standards and other methods formats specifications standards systems procedures sales and marketing techniques knowledge and experience used in developing and operating studios etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. market research promotional marketing and advertising strategies and programs for studios strategic plans including expansion strategies and targeted demographics knowledge of specifications for and suppliers of and methods of ordering operating assets and other products and supplies any computer software or similar technology which is proprietary to us or the franchise system including digital passwords and identifications and any source code of and data reports and other printed materials generated by the software or similar technology knowledge of the operating results and financial performance of studios other than your studio information generated by or used or developed in your studio operation including information relating to members such as member names addresses telephone numbers mail addresses buying habits preferences demographic information and related information membership information and any other information contained from time to time in the computer system and any other information designated as confidential or proprietary by us. you acknowledge and agree that you will not acquire any interest in confidential information other than the right to use it as we specify in operating your studio during this agreement term and that confidential information is proprietary includes our trade secrets and is disclosed to you only on the condition that you agree and you in fact do agree that you and your owners a will not use confidential information in any other business or capacity will keep each item deemed to be part of confidential information absolutely confidential both during this agreement term and then thereafter will not make unauthorized copies of any confidential information disclosed via electronic medium or in written or other tangible form will adopt and implement reasonable procedures to prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information including restricting its disclosure to studio personnel and others and using non disclosure and non competition agreements with those having access to confidential information in the form attached as exhibit. we reserve the right to regulate the form of non disclosure and non competition agreement that you use including by requiring you to use the agreement attached as exhibit and to be a third party beneficiary of those agreements with independent enforcement rights. you acknowledge that any form of non disclosure and non competition agreement that we require you to use provide to you or regulate the terms of including the agreement attached as exhibit may or may not be enforceable in a etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. particular jurisdiction. you agree that you are solely responsible for obtaining your own professional advice with respect to the adequacy of the terms and provisions of any confidentiality and non compete agreement that your employees agents and independent contractors sign and will not sell trade or otherwise profit in any way from the confidential information except using methods approved by us. confidential information does not include information knowledge or know how which you can demonstrate lawfully came to your attention before we provided it to you directly or indirectly which at the time that we disclosed it to you already had lawfully become generally known through publication or communication by others without violating an obligation to us or our affiliates or which after we disclose it to you lawfully becomes generally known through publication or communication by others without violating an obligation to us or our affiliates. however if we include any matter in confidential information anyone who claims that it is not confidential information must prove that one of the exclusions provided in this paragraph is fulfilled. all membership information will be owned by us. you agree to use membership information only for the promotion of your studio during the term hereof and refrain from selling membership information to third parties. all ideas concepts techniques or materials relating to a studio whether or not protectable intellectual property and whether created by or for you or your owners or employees must be promptly disclosed to us and will be deemed to be our sole and exclusive property part of the franchise system and works made for hire for us. to the extent that any item does not qualify as a work made for hire for us by this paragraph you assign ownership of that item and all related rights to that item to us and agree to take whatever action including signing assignment or other documents we request to evidence our ownership or to help us obtain intellectual property rights in the item. exclusive relationship during term. a covenants against competition. you acknowledge that we have granted you a franchise in consideration of and reliance upon your agreement to deal exclusively with us. you therefore agree that during this agreement term neither you any of your owners nor any of your or your owners immediate family members will a have any direct or indirect controlling or non controlling interest as an ownerwhether of record beneficially or otherwisein a competitive business as defined below wherever located or operating except that equity ownership of less than five percent of a competitive business whose stock or other forms of ownership interest are publicly traded on a recognized united states stock exchange will not be deemed to violate this subparagraph etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. perform services as a director officer manager employee consultant representative or agent for a competitive business wherever located or operating divert or attempt to divert any actual or potential business or member of your studio to a competitive business employ or seek to employ any person who is employed by us our affiliates or by any other studio franchise owner nor induce nor attempt to induce any such person to leave said employment without the prior written consent of such person employer or engage in any other activity which might injure the goodwill of the marks and franchise system. you agree to obtain similar covenants from the personnel we specify including officers directors managers and other employees attending our training program or having access to confidential information. we have the right to regulate the form of agreement that you use and to be a third partythird party beneficiary of that agreement with independent enforcement rights. the term competitive business means any business excluding any studios operated under a franchise agreement with us or our affiliate operating or granting franchises or licenses to others to operate any fitness or workout facility. b non solicitation and non interference. you further agree that during the term of this agreement neither you any of your owners nor any of your or your owners immediate family members will recruit or hire any person who is then or was within the immediately preceding twelve months employed by us by any of our affiliates or by a studio franchise owner without our consent or that of the relevant employer or solicit interfere or attempt to interfere with our or our affiliates relationships with any members vendorssuppliers franchisees regional developers or consultants. circa non disparagement. you agree not to and to use your best efforts to cause your current and former shareholders members officers directors principals agents partners employees representatives attorneys spouses affiliates successors and assigns not to i disparage or otherwise speak or write negatively directly or indirectly of us our affiliates any of our or our affiliates directors officers employees representatives or affiliates the eat the frog or etf fitness brand the franchise system any studio any business using the marks or ii take any other action which would directly or indirectly subject the eat the frog or etf fitness brand to ridicule scandal reproach scorn or indignity or which would negatively impact the goodwill of us or the eat the frog or etf fitness brand. etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. system standards. a condition and appearance of your studio. during the term of this agreement you must regularly clean repaint and repair the interior and exterior of the premises repair or replace damaged worn out or obsolete operating assets and otherwise maintain the condition of your studio the premises and the operating assets to meet the highest standards of professionalism cleanliness sanitation efficient courteous service and pleasant ambiance. you will place or display at the premises interior and exterior only those signs emblems designs artwork lettering logos and display and advertising materials that we from time to time approve. if at any time in our reasonable judgment the general state of repair appearance or cleanliness of the premises of your studio or the operating assets does not meet our standards we have the right to notify you specifying the action you must take to correct the deficiency. if you do not initiate action to correct such deficiencies within ten days after you receive our notice and then do not continue in good faith and with due diligence a bona fide program to complete any required maintenance or refurbishing we have the right in addition to all other remedies to enter the premises of your studio and do any required maintenance or refurbishing on your behalf and you agree to reimburse us on demand for any expenses we incur in maintaining or refurbishing the premises on your behalf. b approved products and services. you agree that your studio will offer the products and services that we specify from time to time including all fitness classes specified by us as part of the franchise system the curriculum your studio will offer and sell approved products and services only at the premises and in the manner we have prescribed and will not sell any products or services wholesale or through alternative channels of distribution including but not limited to the internet or retail stores you will not offer for sale or sell at your studio the premises or any other location any products or services we have not approved you will discontinue selling and offering for sale at your studio any products or services that we at any time decide in our sole discretion to disapprove in writing and your studio will provide services and sell products only on the days and during the hours approved by us. if at any time including after our initial approval we determine that you fail to meet our specifications and standards in connection with the provision of any products or services including the curriculum we may permanently or temporarily terminate your right to offer such products or services provided that nothing contained herein shall be deemed a waiver of our right to terminate pursuant to section termination of agreement. circa memberships you will offer and sell rights of access to your studio referred to as a membership or memberships. all memberships must be evidenced by a written agreement a membership etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. agreement and may not be for a term that extends beyond the expiration of this agreement. when selling memberships you will use the form of membership agreement that we will provide to you and you will not make any modifications in the forms without our prior written consent. notwithstanding the foregoing you acknowledge that you are responsible for ensuring that the membership agreements comply with all applicable laws and you may modify the membership agreements to the extent necessary to comply with such applicable laws provided that you provide us with immediate notice of all such modifications. you acknowledge and agree that subject to the preceding sentence any membership agreement that has been modified without our consent shall be void. you further acknowledge and agree that we reserve the right to require the membership agreement to contain a provision pursuant to which upon termination or expiration of this agreement or closure of your studio the members must agree to continue their remaining term of membership at another studio. we may modify the types and terms of memberships to be offered except pricing terms terminate your right to offer certain types of memberships and or approve or require other types of memberships for sale. you will only offer for sale the memberships in strict compliance with system standards and our standards policies and procedures. notwithstanding the preceding sentence you will be solely responsible for determining that you may sell memberships under all laws and regulations applicable to your studio and you agree that you will fully comply with all such laws and regulations. we may suspend revoke or terminate your right to offer memberships at any time. you agree to comply with the system standards we establish from time to time regarding memberships. these system standards may regulate among others the following topics the types and terms of memberships you may offer the form of membership agreement the terms and conditions upon which a member may transfer his membership from your studio to another studio and vice versa admission of members of your studio to other studios procedures to follow when members transfer to or from your studio use and acceptance of coupons passes and certificates group accounts and group memberships and discounts applicable thereto and payment terms for memberships. you agree upon notice from us to accept any memberships we assign to you and if we so require to honor those memberships on the terms and conditions of the existing membership agreement and to accept as remuneration only such payments as accrue pursuant to the applicable membership agreement from the time of assignment. we may contact any member of any studio at any time for any purpose. also if we are contacted by a member of your studio who wishes to lodge a complaint we will first refer the member to you. however if you cannot satisfy the needs of the complaining member we reserve the right to address the member complaints in order to preserve goodwill and prevent damage to the marks. our right to address complaints may include refunding money to the complaining member in which case you must reimburse us for these amounts. at our request from time to time you must send us a list of your members and all other membership information we specify. you agree that we own all membership information that it comprises part of the confidential information which you are licensed to use under this agreement and that we may use membership information in our and their business activities and may disclose membership information such as the number of members but during the etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. term of this agreement we will not publicly disclose any membership information unless we make such public disclosure without disclosing your identity or your studio membership information on an individual i unconsolidated basis. upon termination of this agreement we reserve the right to make any and all disclosures that we deem necessary or appropriate. we reserve the right to establish a reciprocity program between your studio and other studios. you must comply with all standards and requirements of any reciprocity program as we may implement and periodically modify. d approved distributors and suppliers. we may designate approve or develop standards and specifications for manufacturers distributors and suppliers of products and services which may be us or our affiliates collectively suppliers. you must purchase the products and services we periodically designate only from the suppliers we prescribe and only on the terms and according to the specifications we approve. we may concentrate purchases with one or more suppliers to obtain lower prices advertising support and or services for any group of studios franchised or operated by us or our affiliates. we may also designate a single supplier for any product service operating asset or other material and may approve a supplier only as to certain products. you acknowledge and agree that we and or our affiliates may derive revenue based on your purchases including from charging you for products and services we or our affiliates provide to you and from promotional allowances rebates volume discounts and other payments services or consideration we receive from suppliers that we designate or approve for some or all of our franchise owners. we and or any of our affiliates may use such revenue or profit without restriction. approval of a supplier may be conditioned on requirements relating to product quality prices consistency reliability financial capability labor relations customer relations frequency of delivery concentration of purchases standards of service including prompt attention to complaints or other criteria and may be temporary pending our continued evaluation of the supplier from time to time. if you would like to purchase or use any products services supplies or materials from any unapproved supplier you must submit to us a written request for approval of the proposed supplier prior to purchasing any such products services supplies or materials. we reserve the right to charge you a fee not to exceed the reasonable cost of the research and inspection and the actual cost of the test to make the evaluation. we have the right to inspect the proposed supplier facilities and to require product samples from the proposed supplier to be delivered at our option either directly to us or to a third party we designate for testing. we shall notify you in writing of the approval or rejection of the proposed supplier within a reasonable time after completion of the investigation of the proposed supplier. if we fail to respond within sixty days your request will be deemed denied. we may in our sole discretion elect to withhold approval of the supplier. you acknowledge that we are likely to reject your request for a new supplier without conducting any investigation if we already have designated an exclusive supplier for material proposed to be offered by the new supplier. we reserve the right to periodically re inspect the facilities and products of any approved supplier and to revoke our etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. approval if the supplier does not continue to meet any of our criteria. we also reserve the right to charge suppliers a royalty for the right to manufacture products for use in the studios. if you would like us to consider approving a supplier that is not an approved supplier you must submit your request in writing before purchasing any items or services from that supplier. we will make all determinations about whether to approve an alternative supplier in our discretion based on our then current criteria which may change from time to time. we may also refuse to consider and or approve any proposed alternative supplier for any reason. we reserve the right to charge you a fee if you ask us to evaluate any proposed alternative supplier. we may with or without cause revoke our approval of any supplier at any time. east compliance with laws and good business practices. you must secure and maintain in force all required licenses permits and certificates relating to the operation of your studio and must at all times operate your studio in full compliance with all applicable laws ordinances and regulations. you agree to comply and assist us in our compliance efforts as applicable with any and all laws regulations including without limitation government regulations relating to truth in lending fitness studios safety and sanitation fitness memberships truth in advertising occupational hazards health and anti discrimination laws executive orders or otherwise relating to antiterrorist activities including the. patriot act executive order and related. treasury and or other regulations. in connection with such compliance efforts you agree not to enter into any prohibited transactions and to properly perform any currency reporting and other activities relating to your studio as may be required by us or by law. you confirm that you are not listed in the annex to executive order and agree not to hire any person so listed or have any dealing with a person so listed the annex is currently available at http you are solely responsible for ascertaining what actions must be taken by you to comply with all such laws orders and or regulations and specifically acknowledge and agree that your indemnification responsibilities as provided in section d indemnification pertain to your obligations hereunder. your studio must in all dealings with its members suppliers us and the public adhere to the highest standards of honesty integrity fair dealing and ethical conduct. you agree to refrain from any business or advertising practice which may be injurious to our business and the goodwill associated with the marks and other studios. you must notify us in writing within five days of the threat of or commencement of any action suit or proceeding and of the issuance of any order writings injunction award or decree of any court agency or other governmental instrumentality which may adversely affect your operation or financial condition or that of your studio and of any notice of violation of any law ordinance or regulation relating to your studio. fahrenheit management of your studio. your studio must always be under the direct on site supervision of you or your operating partner. if you or your operating partner do not supervise your studio on a full time basis you must appoint a manager who has completed our then current management etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. training and coach training to work full time to supervise the operation of your studio the general manager. you or your operating partner and your general manager if applicable and if required by us any other employees or coaches must complete all required training to our satisfaction. if a new operating partner or general manager is appointed such operating partner must complete the manager training and coach training described in section a initial and ongoing training within thirty days after the appointment date. we reserve the right to provide additional training at your expense if we determine in our sole discretion that a operating partner and or general manager has demonstrated an insufficient mastery of the training provided. subject to the terms and conditions of this agreement you are solely responsible for the management direction and control of your studio. you or if you are conducting business as an entity your operating partner must supervise the management and day to day operations of your studio on a full time basis and continuously exert best efforts to promote and enhance your studio and the goodwill associated with the marks. if you or if you are conducting business as an entity your operating partner do not wish to supervise your studio on a full time basis you must appoint a manager who has completed our then current manager training and coach training to work full time to supervise the operation of your studio the general manager. we reserve the right to approve your general manager before he or she begins to provide services at your studio. during any period in which no general manager is approved including because the general manager resigns or otherwise indicates to us or you that he or she wishes to cease acting as your general manager or we disapprove of your general manager for any reason you or if you are conducting business as an entity your operating partner must supervise the day to day operations of your studio. promptly after the effective date and in no event later than the start of pre opening membership sales you must engage a salesperson meeting the minimum qualifications that we designate from time to time the sales manager. we reserve the right to approve your sales manager before he or she begins to provide services or selling memberships. the sales manager is not required to attend our manager training but you must provide your sales manager a training program that we have approved in the material aspects of selling memberships. you must retain a sales manager for the entire term of this agreement. if any sales manager is terminated or resigns from such position you must find a replacement sales manager within thirty days. you or if you are conducting business as an entity your operating partner may not fill the position of sales manager however if you have engaged a general manager to assist you in supervising the day to day operations of your studio we may approve your general manager to act as the sales manager in our discretion. g insurance. during the term of this agreement you must maintain in force at your sole expense comprehensive public liability general liability personal injury liability motor vehicle liability property product liability employment practices liability workers compensation commercial etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. liability umbrella and other types of insurance we require including the types and minimum amounts of insurance specific to fitness and workout studios. we reserve the right to require that you obtain all or a portion of your insurance policies from a designated vendorsupplier. the liability insurance must cover claims for bodily and personal injury death and property damage caused by or occurring in connection with your studio operation or activities of your personnel in the course of their employment within and outside your studio and the premises. all of these policies must contain the minimum coverage we prescribe from time to time and must have deductibles not to exceed the amounts we specify. we may periodically increase the amounts of coverage required under these insurance policies and or require different or additional insurance coverages including reasonable excess liability insurance at any time to reflect inflation identification of new risks changes in law or standards of liability higher damage awards or other relevant changes in circumstances. these insurance policies must be purchased from licensed insurers having a rating of or higher by the then current edition of best insurance reports published by. best company or other similar publication or criteria we designate with a minimum financial size category of viii. each insurance policy must name us and any affiliates we designate as additional named insureds using a form of endorsement we have approved and provide for thirty days prior written notice to us of a policy material modification cancellation or expiration. each insurance policy must contain a waiver of all subrogation rights against us our affiliates and their successors and assigns. you routinely must furnish us copies of your certificates of insurance or other evidence of your maintaining this insurance coverage and paying premiums. if you fail or refuse to obtain and maintain the insurance we specify in addition to our other remedies including termination we may but need not obtain such insurance for you and your studio on your behalf in which event you shall cooperate with us and reimburse us for all premiums costs and expenses we incur in obtaining and maintaining the insurance plus a reasonable fee for our time incurred in obtaining such insurance. our requirements for minimum insurance coverage are not representations or warranties of any kind that such coverage is sufficient for your studio operations. such requirements represent only the minimum coverage that we deem acceptable to protect our interests. it is your sole responsibility to obtain insurance coverage for your studio that you deem appropriate based on your own independent investigation. we are not responsible if you sustain losses that exceed your insurance coverage under any circumstances. no insurance coverage that we or our affiliate maintain shall relieve you of your obligation to maintain insurance. no insurance coverage that you or any other party maintains will be deemed a substitute for your indemnification obligations to us or affiliates under section. or otherwise. h pricing. we may periodically set a maximum or minimum price that you may charge for products and services offered by your studio. if we impose a maximum price for any product or service you may not charge more for the product or service than the maximum price we impose. if we impose a minimum price for any product or service you may not charge less for such product or service than the minimum price we impose. for any product or service for which we do not impose a maximum or minimum price we may require you to comply with an advertising policy etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. adopted by us which will prohibit you from advertising any price for a product or service that is different than our suggested retail price. although you must comply with any advertising policy we adopt you will not be prohibited from selling any product or service at a price above or below the suggested retail price unless we impose a maximum price or minimum price for such product or service. i employees agents independent contractors. you acknowledge and agree that you are solely responsible for all decisions relating to employees agents and independent contractors that you may hire to assist in the operation of your studio. you agree that any employee agent or independent contractor that you hire will be your employee agent or independent contractor and not our employee agent or independent contractor. you also agree that you are exclusively responsible for the terms and conditions of employment of your employees including recruiting hiring firing training compensation work hours and schedules work assignments safety and security discipline and supervision. you agree to manage the employment functions of your studio in compliance with federal state and local employment laws. j information security. you must implement all administrative physical and technical safeguards necessary to protect any information that can be used to identify an individual including names addresses telephone numbers mail addresses employee identification numbers signatures passwords financial information credit card information biometric or health data government issued identification numbers and credit report information personal information in accordance with applicable law and industry best practices. it is entirely your responsibility even if we provide you any assistance or guidance in that regard to confirm that the safeguards you use to protect personal information comply with all applicable laws and industry best practices related to the collection access use storage disposal and disclosure of personal information. if you become aware of a suspected or actual breach of security or unauthorized access involving personal information you will notify us immediately and specify the extent to which personal information was compromised or disclosed. kelvin compliance with system standards. you acknowledge and agree that operating and maintaining your studio according to system standards is essential to preserve the goodwill of the marks and all studios. therefore you agree at all times to operate and maintain your studio according to all of our system standards as we periodically modify and supplement them even if you believe that a system standard as originally issued or subsequently modified is not in the franchise system or your best interests. although we retain the right to establish and periodically modify system standards that you have agreed to maintain you or your operating partner retain the right to and responsibility for the day to day management and operation of your studio and implementing and maintaining system standards at your studio. etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. as examples and without limitation system standards may regulate any one or more of the following in addition to the items described in sections a through j above amounts and types of equipment and inventory requirements for products and supplies so that your studio may operate at full capacity sales marketing advertising and promotional programs and materials and media used in these programs the offer and sale of memberships both before your studio is fully open and thereafter the classes programs and methods of coaching that will be included in the curriculum use and display of the marks at your studio and on uniforms labels forms paper products and other supplies issuing and honoring gift cards gift certificates and similar items staffing levels for your studio identifying your studio personnel and coaches qualifications training dress and appearance although you have sole responsibility and authority concerning employee selection and promotion hours worked rates of pay and other benefits work assigned and working conditions days and hours of operation customer service standards and policies including quality assurance and customer satisfaction programs we introduce minimum educational background credentials and skill levels of employees and coaches performing services at your studio participation in market research and testing and product and service development programs as well as participation in and dues assessed for advisory councils accepting credit and debit cards other payment systems and check verification services bookkeeping accounting data processing and recordkeeping systems and forms formats content and frequency of reports to us of sales revenue financial performance and condition and giving us copies of tax returns and other operating and financial information concerning your studio and etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. any other aspects of operating and maintaining your studio that we determine to be useful to preserve or enhance the efficient operation image or goodwill of the marks and studios. you agree that system standards we prescribe in the operations manual or otherwise communicate to you in writing or another tangible form for example via a franchise system extranet or website are part of this agreement as if fully set forth within its text. all references to this agreement include all system standards as periodically modified. line variation and modification of system standards. we may permit variations in the system standards as we deem advisable including variations to accommodate local or regional differences and or distinctions between studios owned by us and studios owned by franchisees. we periodically may modify system standards and these modifications may obligate you to invest additional capital in your studio and or incur higher operating costs. you agree to implement any changes in system standards within the time period we request whether they involve refurbishing or remodeling your studio buying new operating assets adding new products and services adding personnel or otherwise modifying the nature of your operations as if they were part of this agreement as of the effective date. meter contact information and listings. you agree that as between us and you we reserve the right to all telephone numbers facsimile numbers directory listings and or any other type of contact information or directory listing for your studio or that you use in the operation or promotion of your studio collectively the contact information. the contact information may be used only for your studio in accordance with this agreement and our system standards and for no other purpose. you are required to execute the form of assignment of contact information and online presences attached as exhibit to grant us with full power and control over the contact information and online presences upon termination or expiration of this agreement. marketing. a pre openingpre sale advertising program. you must conduct ana pre sale advertising program the pres sale advertising program before you beginduring the period that you are conducting pre opening membership sales. you must spend at least twenty thousand dollars on the pres sale advertising program. you agree to comply with our guidelines for thissystem standards for your presale advertising program and conduct the presale advertising program in accordance with our specifications and standards and pursuant to a presale advertisinga plan which you will prepare and submit to us for approval at least sixty days before you begin pre opening membership sales. we may require you to use the advertising marketing and or public relations programs firms media and materials we approve for your pre sale advertising program. we reserve the right to approve the type of expenditure that will count towards your minimum expenditure on your pre sale advertising program. etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. b grand opening advertising program. in addition to conducting the pres sale advertising program you agree to spend at least fifteentwenty thousand dollars for a ggrand oopening marketingadvertising pprogram for your studio to take place during the period beginning two weeks before your opening date and ending six weeks after your opening date the grand opening periodadvertising program. you agree to comply with our guidelinessystem standards for thisyour grand opening marketingadvertising program and conduct the grand opening marketingadvertising program in accordance with our specifications and standards and pursuant to a grand opening marketing plan which you will prepare and submit to us for approval at least sixty days prior to your opening date. we may require you to use the advertising marketing and or public relations programs firms media and materials we approve for your presalegrand opening advertising program and or. we reserve the right to approve the type of expenditure that will count towards your minimum expenditure on your grand opening advertising program. circa b local advertising expenditure. you agree to advertise with at least two recommended classified online directories such as yelp citysearch google local or yahoo! local and any other free advertising medium we determine each in the business classifications we prescribe from time to time and using an approved form of advertisement. if other studios are located within the directory distribution area we may require you to participate in a collective online advertisement with those other studios and to pay your share of the cost of that collective advertisement. you are solely responsible for conducting all local advertising for your studio. you must advertise and market your studio in any advertising medium we determine using forms of advertisement we approve. you must also list your studio with the online directories and subscriptions we periodically prescribe such as yelp and google and or establish any other online presence we require. you must comply with all of our system standards for your local advertising including your online presences. you agree to spend minimum amount that we designate which will not be less than or more than per month on local to advertisinge forand promote your studio this may include the costs of online directory advertising the local advertising expenditure. we may change the amount of your local advertising expenditure from time to time subject to your maximum advertising expenditure as defined in section g except you will never spend less than per month on your local advertising expenditure. we may periodically require you to submit llocal aadvertising eexpenditure reports accurately reflecting all llocal aadvertising eexpenditures for the preceding month and year to date. if any report or inspection reveals that you failed to make the local advertising expenditure required by this section we may require that you contribute the amount of any deficiency to the marketing fund with such payment due immediately upon your receipt of our invoice. we reserve the right to approve the type of expenditure that will count towards your local advertising expenditure. etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. d circa advertising by you. any advertising and promotion conducted by you with respect to your studio must follow our guidelines. all advertising and promotional materials that you develop for your studio must contain notices of the domain of our franchise system website as defined in section gh below in the manner we designate. you agree that your partnership advertising promotion and marketing will be completely clear factual and not misleading and conform to both the highest standards of ethical advertising and marketing and the advertising and marketing policies that we prescribe from time to time. all advertising promotion and marketing must conform to our system standards. at least fourteen days before you intend to use them you agree to send us for approval samples of all advertising promotional and marketing materials that we have previously not approved. if we do not approve of the materials within seven days of our receipt of such materials then they shall be deemed disapproved. you may not use any advertising promotional or marketing materials that we have not approved in writing or have disapproved. we or our affiliates may decide in our sole discretion to provide you a supply of stock digital templates that we develop for advertising marketing and promotional materials. we or our affiliates may also decide in our sole discretion to provide you modified or additional templates that you have requested. if we or our affiliates provide you any additional or modified templates that you have requested we or our affiliates may charge you the direct costs we incur in creating those templates including any fees paid to third party service providers. you will bear all costs associated with producing shipping handling and storing marketing and advertising materials created using templates we or our affiliates have provided. east d advertising and marketing fundamental recognizing the value of advertising and marketing to the goodwill and public image of studios we have established a national advertising and marketing fund the marketing fund for the advertising marketing and public relations programs and materials we deem appropriate that will be used nationally regionally or locally in our franchise owners markets. we intend for the marketing fund to promote the marks patronage of studios and the eat the frog or etf fitness brand generally. you must pay us the marketing fund contribution in accordance with section. above. studios owned by us or our affiliates will contribute to the marketing fund on the same basis as our franchise owners. we will direct all programs that the marketing fund finances with sole control over the creative concepts materials and endorsements used and their geographic market and media placement and allocation. the marketing fund may pay for preparing and producing video audio and written materials and electronic media developing implementing and maintaining our franchise system website or related websites that promotes studios and or related strategies developing and maintaining application software designed to run on computers and similar devices including tablets smartphones and other mobile devices as well as any evolutions or next generations of any such devices administering online advertising and marketing campaigns including search engine social media email and display ad campaigns administering regional and multi regional marketing and advertising programs including purchasing trade journal direct mail and other media advertising using advertising promotion etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. and marketing agencies and other advisors to provide assistance and supporting public relations market research and other advertising promotion and marketing activities. we will account for the marketing fund separately from our other funds. we may use the marketing fund to pay the reasonable salaries and benefits of personnel who manage and administer the marketing fund the marketing fund other administrative costs travel expenses of personnel while they are on marketing fund business meeting costs overhead relating to marketing fund business and other expenses that we incur in activities reasonably related to administering or directing the marketing fund and its programs including conducting market research public relations preparing advertising promotion and marketing materials and collecting and accounting for marketing fund contributions. the marketing fund is not our asset. although the marketing fund is not a trust we will hold all marketing fund contributions for the benefit of the contributors and use marketing fund contributions only for the purposes described in this section. we do not have any fiduciary obligation for administering the marketing fund or for any other reason. the marketing fund may spend in any fiscal year more or less than the total marketing fund contributions in that year borrow from us or others paying reasonable interest to cover deficits or invest any surplus for future use. we will use all interest earned on marketing fund contributions to pay costs before using the marketing fund other assets. we will prepare an annual unaudited statement of marketing fund collections and expenses and give you the statement upon written request. we may have the marketing fund audited annually at the marketing fund expense by an independent certified public accountant. we may incorporate the marketing fund or operate it through a separate entity whenever we deem appropriate. the successor entity will have all of the rights and duties specified in this section d the purpose of the marketing fund is to maximize recognition of the marks and patronage of studios. although we will try to use the marketing fund to develop advertising and marketing materials and programs and to place such materials that will benefit all studios we cannot ensure that marketing fund expenditures in or affecting any geographic area are proportionate or equivalent to marketing fund contributions by contributors operating in that geographic area or that any contributor benefits directly or in proportion to its marketing fund contribution from the development of advertising and marketing materials or the placement of advertising and marketing. we have the right but no obligation to use collection agents and institute legal proceedings to collect marketing fund contributions at the marketing fund expense. we also may forgive waive settle and compromise all claims by or against the marketing fundamental except as expressly provided in this section we assume no direct or indirect liability or obligation to you for collecting amounts due to maintaining directing or administering the marketing fundamental we may at any time defer or reduce contributions of a studio franchise owner and upon thirty days prior written notice to you reduce or suspend marketing fund contributions and operations for one or more periods of any length and terminate and if terminated reinstate the marketing fundamental if we terminate the marketing fund we will distribute all unspent monies etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. to our franchise owners and to us and our affiliates in proportion to their and our respective marketing fund contributions during the preceding twelve month period. fahrenheit east local advertising cooperative. subject to the terms and conditions of this section east you agree that we or our affiliates or designees may establish or direct the establishment of a local advertising cooperative local advertising cooperative in geographical areas as determined by us in which two or more studios are operating. the local advertising cooperative will be organized and governed by written documents in a form and manner and begin operating on a date that we determine in advance. such written documents will be available for participating local advertising cooperative franchise owners to review. we may change dissolve and merge local advertising cooperatives. each local advertising cooperative purpose is with our approval to administer advertising programs and develop advertising marketing and promotional materials for the area that the local advertising cooperative covers. if as of the time you sign this agreement we have established a local advertising cooperative for the geographic area in which your studio is located or if we establish a local advertising cooperative in that area during this agreement term you agree to sign the documents we require to become a member of the local advertising cooperative and to participate in the local advertising cooperative as those documents require. if we establish a local advertising cooperative in your geographic area pursuant to this section east you agree to participate and contribute your share to such local advertising cooperative local advertising cooperative contribution. the amount of your local advertising cooperative contribution will be determined at the time the local advertising cooperative is established. your local advertising cooperative contribution will be payable in the same manner as the royalty. your local advertising cooperative contribution may also be capped based on the provisions of the by laws adopted by the local advertising cooperative subject to our approval. studios owned by us or our affiliates will contribute to their respective local advertising cooperative on the same basis as our franchise owners. each studio contributing to a local advertising cooperative will have one vote on matters involving the activities of the particular local advertising cooperative. the local advertising cooperative may not use any advertising marketing or promotional plans or materials without our prior written consent. we agree to assist in the formulation of marketing plans and programs which will be implemented under the direction of the local advertising cooperative. you acknowledge and agree that subject to our approval and subject to availability of funds the local advertising cooperative will have discretion over the creative concepts materials and endorsements used by it. you agree that the local advertising cooperative assessments may be used to pay the costs of preparing and producing video audio and written advertising and direct sales materials for studios in your area purchasing direct mail and other media advertising for studios in your area implementing direct sales programs and employing marketing advertising and public relations firms to assist with the development and administration of marketing programs for studios in your area. the monies collected by us on behalf of a local advertising cooperative will be accounted for separately by us from our other funds and will not be used to defray any of our etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. general operating expenses. you agree to submit to us and the local advertising cooperative any reports that we or the local advertising cooperative require. you understand and acknowledge that your studio might not benefit directly or in proportion to its contribution to the local advertising cooperative from the development and placement of advertising and the development of marketing materials. local advertising cooperatives for studios will be developed separately and no cooperative will be intended to benefit the others. we will have the right but not the obligation to use collection agents and to institute legal proceedings to collect amounts owed to the local advertising cooperative on behalf of and at the expense of the local advertising cooperative and to forgive waive settle and compromise all claims by or against the local advertising cooperative. except as expressly provided in this section east we assume no direct or indirect liability or obligation to you with respect to the maintenance direction or administration of the local advertising cooperative. g maximum advertising expenditure. notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this agreement the combined contribution to the marketing fund local advertising expenditure and local advertising cooperative contribution shall not exceed ten percent of your gross sales the maximum advertising expenditure except you will never spend less than per month on your local advertising expenditure. we reserve the right on days written notice and in our sole discretion to change the amount of your contribution to the marketing fund local advertising expenditure or local advertising cooperative contribution so long as any change does not result in a combined amount greater than the maximum advertising expenditure. h fahrenheit franchise system website. we may establish a acquire or host any website to advertise market and promote studios the products and services that they offer and sell and or a studio franchise opportunity thea franchise system website. we may but are not obligated to provide you with a webpage on thea franchise system website that references your studio for informational purposes only. if we provide you with a webpage on thea franchise system website you must i provide us the information and materials we request to develop update and modify your webpage ii notify us whenever any information on your webpage is not accurate and iii if we give you the right to modify your webpage notify us whenever you change the content of your webpage. we will own all intellectual property and other rights in theall franchise system websites including your webpage and all information it contains including the domain name or url for your webpage any associated email address any website analytical data and any personal or business data that visitors supply. we will maintain theeach franchise system website and may use the marketing fund assets to develop maintain and update theany franchise system website. we periodically may update and modify theany franchise system website including your webpage. you acknowledge that we have final approval rights over all information on theeach franchise system website including your webpage. we may implement and periodically modify system standards relating to the franchise system websites. etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. even if we provide you a webpage on oura franchise system website we will only maintain such webpage while you are in full compliance with this agreement and all system standards we implement including those relating to the franchise system website. if you are in default of any obligation under this agreement or our system standards then we may in addition to our other remedies temporarily remove your webpage from theany franchise system website until you fully cure the default. we will permanently remove your webpage from theall franchise system websites upon this agreement expiration or termination. allwe may require you to provide notice of any franchise system website in the advertising marketing and promotional materials that you develop for your studio must contain notices of the franchise system website domain name in the manner we designate. we reserve the sole right to sell the products sold by studios on the internet through theany franchise system website or other online presence. you agree that you will not sell any studio products or services to members on a website through the internetany online presence or through any alternative channels of distribution. we reserve the right to require you to obtain from us and use an email address associated with our registered domain name. if we require you to obtain and use such an email address you must do so according to our then current terms and conditions. we reserve the right to charge you a fee for each email address we provide you. except as provided above or as approved by us in writing or in the operations manual you may not develop maintain or authorize any website other than the franchise system website domain name url address email address other oonline ppresence or other electronic medium that mentions your studio links to theany franchise system website or displays any of the marks or engage in any promotional or similar activities whether directly or indirectly through any online presence. if we approve the use of any such websites other oonline ppresences or electronic mediums including social networking websites such as linkedin twitter instagram facebook or youtube in the operation of your studio or the posting of messages relating to your studio on other websites you will do sodevelop and maintain such online presence only in accordance with our guidelines. we reserve the right to require our approval of including our guidelines for posting any messages you compose for a social networking website or commentary for any other website before you post such message or commentary.on other third party websites. we will own the rights to each such online presence. at our request you agree to grant us access to each such online presence and to take whatever action including signing assignment or other documents we request to evidence our ownership of such online presence or to help us obtain exclusive rights in such online presence. records reports and financial statements. you agree to establish and maintain at your own expense a bookkeeping accounting and recordkeeping system conforming to the requirements and formats we prescribe from time to time. you must use a computer system to maintain certain sales data membership information and other information. you agree that we shall have access to the computer system of your studio at all times and that we shall have the right to collect and retain from the computer system any and all data concerning your studio. we may require that you hire a service provider that we designate as your provider of accounting payroll and or bookkeeping services. if we etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. designate a service provider for accounting payroll and or bookkeeping services you agree to cooperate with such service provider and provide such service provider with all information you would appropriately provide us under this section. each month you agree to generate in the manner and format that we may prescribe from time to time an income statement including a standard chart of the accounts designated by us for your studio covering the most recently completed month. upon our request you agree to send us such statements. you also agree to give us in the manner and format that we prescribe from time to time a on or before the royalty payment a report on your studio gross sales during the preceding week within fifteen days after the end of each calendar month the operating statements financial statements statistical reports and other information we request regarding your studio covering the preceding month within the time limits specified in the operations manual such other periodic operating statements financial statements statistical reports and other information we request regarding you and your studio by march of each year annual profit and loss and source and use of funds statements and a balance sheet for your studio as of the end of the prior calendar year and within ten days after our request exact copies of federal and state income tax returns sales tax returns and any other forms records books and other information we may periodically require relating to you and your studio. an officer must certify and sign each report and financial statement in the manner we prescribe. we may disclose data derived from these reports although we will not without your consent unless required by law disclose your identity in any materials that we circulate publicly. subject to applicable law you agree to preserve and maintain all records in a secure location at your studio for at least three years including but not limited to sales checks purchase orders invoices payroll records customer lists check stubs sales tax records and returns cash receipts journals cash disbursement journals and general ledgers. we may require you to have audited financial statements prepared annually during the term of this agreement. inspections and audits. a our right to inspect your studio. to determine whether you and your studio are complying with this agreement and all system standards we and our designated agents or representatives may at all times and without prior notice to you inspect your studio photograph your studio and observe and videotape your studio operation for consecutive or intermittent periods we deem necessary continuously or periodically monitor your studio using electronic surveillance or other etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. means remove samples of any products and supplies interview your studio personnel and members attend any classes taught at your studio at no cost to us and inspect your computer system including hardware software security configurations connectivity and data access and inspect and copy any books records and documents relating to your studio operation. additionally we may contract with third parties to conduct mystery shopper visits or other market research testing and quality assurance inspections at your studio. and yyou shall paywill be required to reimburse us the costs of such testing and inspections. notwithstanding the foregoing mystery shopper visits provided that you will not be obligated to pay for more than two third party contracted mystery shopper visits per calendar year. you agree to cooperate with us fully. if we exercise any of these rights we will not interfere unreasonably with your studio operation. if we determine after any inspection of your studio that one or more failures of system standards exist we may re inspect your studio one or more times thereafter in our discretion to evaluate whether such failures have been cured and or conduct any other follow up review that we deem is necessary and you will reimburse all of our costs associated with such re inspections and follow up visits including vendor fees travel expenses room and board and compensation of our employees. these remedies are in addition to our other remedies and rights under this agreement and applicable law. b our right to audit. we may at any time during your business hours and without prior notice to you examine your and your studio business bookkeeping and accounting records sales and income tax records and returns and other records. you agree to cooperate fully with our representatives and independent accountants in any examination. if any examination discloses an understatement of your studio gross sales you agree to pay us within fifteen days after receiving the examination report the royalty marketing fund contribution and any other fees understated plus interest on the understated amounts from the date originally due until the date of payment. furthermore if an examination is necessary due to your failure to furnish reports supporting records or other information as required or to furnish these items on a timely basis or if our examination reveals an understatement of gross sales exceeding three percent of the amount that you actually reported to us for the period examined you agree to reimburse us for the costs of the examination including the charges of attorneys and independent accountants and the travel expenses room and board and compensation of our employees. these remedies are in addition to our other remedies and rights under this agreement and applicable law. transfer. a by us. you acknowledge that we maintain a staff to manage and operate the franchise system and that staff members can change as employees come and go. you acknowledge that you did not sign this agreement in reliance on the continued participation by or employment of any of our owners directors officers or employees. we may change our ownership or form and or assign this agreement and any other agreement to a third party without restriction. after our assignment of this agreement to a third party who expressly assumes the obligations under this etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. agreement we no longer will have any performance or the other obligations under this agreement. this agreement and any other agreement will inure to the benefit of any transferee or other legal successor to our interest in it. b by you. you understand and acknowledge that the rights and duties this agreement creates are personal to you and your owners and that we have granted you the franchise in reliance upon our perceptions of your and your owners individual or collective character skill aptitude attitude business ability and financial capacity. accordingly none of the following may be transferred without our prior written approval i this agreement or any interest in this agreement ii your studio or any right to receive all or a portion of your studio profits or losses or capital appreciation related to your studio iii substantially all of the assets of your studio or iv any direct or indirect ownership interest in you if you are an entity regardless of its size or any ownership interest in any of your owners if such owners are legal entities. transfer of your studio ownership possession or control or substantially all of its assets may be made only with a transfer of this agreement. any transfer without our approval is a breach of this agreement and has no effect. in this agreement the term transfer includes a voluntary involuntary direct or indirect assignment sale gift or other disposition. an assignment sale gift or other disposition includesing the following events a transfer by reason of transfer of ownership of capital stock a partnership or membership interest or another form of ownership interest merger or consolidation or issuance of additional securities or other forms of ownership interest death disability divorce insolvency encumbrance foreclosure surrender or by operation of law. any sale of a security convertible to an ownership interest transfer in your owners in a divorce insolvency or entity dissolution proceeding or otherwise by operation of law if one of your owners or an owner of one of your owners dies a transfer of by will declaration of or transfer in trust or under the laws of intestate succession or foreclosure upon your studio or a transfer surrender or loss of your studio possession control or management. additionally you may not pledge this agreement to someone other than us or an ownership interest in you or your owners as security for any loan or other financing unless we grant our prior written consent and the lender agrees that its claims will be subordinate to all amounts you owe at any time to us or our affiliates. etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. circa conditions for approval of transfer. if you and your owners are fully complying with this agreement then subject to the other provisions of this section we will approve a transfer that meets all of the requirements in this section circa if the proposed transfer is of a non controlling ownership interest in you or your owners determined as of the date on which the proposed transfer will occur then we will approve such transfer if the proposed transferee and its direct and indirect owners if the transferee is an entity are of good character and meet our then applicable standards for studio franchise owners including no ownership interest or performance of services for a competitive business. if the proposed transfer is i of this agreement ii of a controlling ownership interest as defined in section king in you or one of your owners or iii of one of a series of transfers regardless of the time period over which these transfers take place which in the aggregate transfers this agreement or a controlling ownership interest in you or one of your owners then all of the following conditions must be met before or concurrently with the effective date of you and your owners including the transferee sign all of the documents we are then requiring in connection with a transfer in a form satisfactory to us including a general release of any and all claims against us and our affiliates and our and their owners officers directors employees and agents and you or the transferee reimburses all of our direct costs for processing the transfer. if the proposed transfer is of i this agreement ii your studio or any right to receive all or a portion of your studio profits or losses or capital appreciation related to your studio iii substantially all of the assets of your studio or iv any controlling ownership interest in you as defined in section king whether in one transfer or a series of transfers that in the aggregate have the foregoing effect then we will approve such transfer if the transferee hasand its owners have sufficient business experience aptitude integrity and financial resources to operate your studio and meet all of our then current criteria for a new franchisee of a studio you have paid all royalties marketing fund contributions and other amounts owed to us our affiliates and third party vendorssuppliers have submitted all required reports and statements and have not violated any provision of this agreement or any other agreement with us or our affiliates during both the sixty day period before you requested our consent to the transfer and the period between your request and the effective date of the transfer neither the transferee nor its owners if the transferee is an entity or affiliates have an ownership interest direct or indirect in or perform services for a competitive business the transferee representatives satisfactorily complete our then current training program etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. your landlord allows you to transfer the lease or to sublease the premises to the transferee the transferee shall if the transfer is of this agreement or you shall if the transfer is of a controlling ownership interest in you or one of your owners sign our then current form of franchise agreement and related documents any and all of the provisions of which may differ materially from any and all of those contained in this agreement including the royalty and the marketing fund contribution provided however that the term of the new franchise agreement signed will equal the remainder of the then remaining term of this agreement you or the transferee pays us a transfer fee equal to fifty percent of the then current initial franchise fee for a new studio you and your owners sign a general releaseand the transferee and its owners sign all of the documents we are then requiring in connection with a transfer in a form satisfactory to us including i a general release of any and all claims against us and our affiliates and our and their owners officers directors employees and agents and ii covenants that you and your transferring owners agree to satisfy all post termination obligations under this agreement all individuals and entities who will be direct or indirect owners must execute or have executed a guaranty in the form we prescribe we have determinedyou provide us executed versions of any documents executed by you or your owners and transferee and its owners to effect the transfer and all other information we request about the proposed transfer and such transfer meets all of our requirements including that the purchase price and payment terms will not adversely affect the transferee operation of your studio if you or your owners finance any part of the purchase price you and or your owners agree that all of the transferee obligations under promissory notes agreements or security interests reserved in your studio are subordinate to the transferee obligation to pay royalties marketing fund contributions and other amounts due to us our affiliates and third party vendorssuppliers related to the operation of the studio and otherwise to comply with this agreement you have corrected any existing deficiencies of your studio of which we have notified you on a punch list or in other communications and or the transferee agrees to upgrade remodel and refurbish your studio in accordance with our then current requirements and specifications for studios within the time period we specify following the effective date of the transfer we will advise the transferee before the effective date of the transfer of the specific actions that it must take and the time period within which such actions must be taken. we may also require the transferee to escrow an amount we approve for payment of the required upgrade remodel or refurbishment etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. you provide us the evidence we reasonably request to show that appropriate measures have been taken to effect the transfer as it relates to the operation of the studio including by transferring all necessary and appropriate business licenses insurance policies and material agreements or obtaining new business licenses insurance policies and material agreements and you and your or any transferring owners comply with the provisions of section county including that you will not directly or indirectly at any time or in any manner except with respect to other studios you own and operate identify yourself or themselves or any business as a current or former studio or as one of our franchise owners use any mark any colorable imitation of a mark or other indicia of a studio in any manner or for any purpose or utilize for any purpose any trade name trade or service mark or other commercial symbol that suggests or indicates a connection or association with us and. you and your transferring owners agree to comply with the restrictive covenants found in sections folio and g of this agreement and are bound as if this agreement was terminated as of the date of transfer. we may review all information regarding your studio that you give the transferee correct any information that we believe is inaccurate and give the transferee copies of any reports that you have given us or we have made regarding your studio. d effect of consent to transfer. our consent to a transfer of this agreement and your studio or any interest in you or your owners is not a representation of the fairness of the terms of any contract between you and the transferee a guarantee of your studio or transferee prospects of success or a waiver of any claims we have against you or your owners or of our right to demand the transferee full compliance with this agreement. east transfer to wholly owned entity. notwithstanding section county above if you are in full compliance with this agreement you may transfer this agreement to an entity which conducts no business other than your studio and if applicable other studios in which you maintain management control and of which you own and control one hundred percent of the equity and voting power of all issued and outstanding ownership interests provided that all of your studio assets are owned and your studio business is conducted only by that single corporation or limited liability company. you must reimburse us for any direct costs we incur in connection with document and otherwise processing such a transfer including reasonable legal fees. the entity must expressly assume all of your obligations under this agreement. you agree to remain personally liable under this agreement as if the transfer to the entity did not occur and sign the form of consent to assignment to corporate entity satisfactory to us which may include a general release of any and all claims against us and our owners officers directors employees and agents. you further agree to provide us with all organizational documents for the entity that we require. etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. fahrenheit our right of first refusal. if you or any of your owners at any time determine to sell or transfer for consideration an interest in this agreement and your studio or an ownership interest in you except to or among your current owners which is not subject to this section in a transaction that otherwise would be allowed under sections b and county above you or your owners agree to obtain from a responsible and fully disclosed buyer and send to us a true and complete copy of a bona fide executed written offer which may include a letter of intent relating exclusively to an interest in you or in this agreement and your studio. the offer must include details of the payment terms of the proposed sale and the sources and terms of any financing for the proposed purchase price. to be a valid bona fide offer the proposed purchase price must be in a dollar amount and the proposed buyer must submit with its offer an earnest money deposit equal to five percent or more of the offering price. the right of first refusal process will not be triggered by a proposed transfer that would not be allowed under sections b and above. we may require you or your owners to send us copies of any materials or information sent to the proposed buyer or transferee regarding the possible transaction. we may elect to purchase the interest offered for the price and on the terms and conditions contained in the offer provided that we notify you or your selling owner that we intend to purchase the interest or within thirty days after we receive a copy of the offer and all other information we request we may substitute cash for any form of payment proposed in the offer such as ownership interests in a privately held entity our credit will be deemed equal to the credit of any proposed buyer meaning that if the proposed consideration includes promissory notes we or our designee may provide promissory notes with the same terms as those offered by the proposed buyer we will have an additional thirty days to prepare for closing after notifying you of our election to purchase and we must receive and you and your owners agree to make all customary representations and warranties given by the seller of the assets of a business or the ownership interests in an entity as applicable including representations and warranties regarding a ownership and condition of and title to ownership interests and or assets liens and encumbrances relating to ownership interests and or assets and validity of contracts and the liabilities contingent or otherwise of the entity whose assets or ownership interests are being purchased. etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. we have the unrestricted right to assign this right of first refusal to a third party who then will have the rights described in this section fahrenheit if we do not exercise our right of first refusal you or your owners may complete the sale to the proposed buyer on the original offer terms but only if we otherwise approve the transfer in accordance with sections b and county above and if you and your owners and the transferee comply with the conditions in sections b and county above. if you do not complete the sale to the proposed buyer within sixty days after we notify you that we do not intend to exercise our right of first refusal or if there is a material change in the terms of the sale which you agree to tell us promptly we or our designee will have an additional right of first refusal during the thirty day period following either the expiration of the sixty day period or our receipt of notice of the material change in the sale terms either on the terms originally offered or the modified terms at our or our designee option. g your death or disability. upon the death or disability of you your operating partner or any owner with a controlling ownership interest in you a controlling owner your or the operating partner or such controlling owner or if you are an entity any of your owners such person executor administrator conservator guardian or other personal representative must transfer yoursuch person interest in this agreement or the operating partner or controlling ownersthe studio or ownership interest in you to a third party which may be your or the operating partner or controlling ownerssuch person heirs beneficiaries or devisees. that transfer must be completed within a reasonable time not to exceed nine months from the date of death or disability and is subject to all of the terms and conditions in this section except that if the transferee is the spouse or immediate family member of you or your operating partner or such controlling owner the transfer fee described in section county is waived if the transfer meets all the other conditions in section county and the transferee reimburses us for any direct costs we incur in connection with documenting and otherwise processing such transfer including reasonable attorneys fees. failure to transfer your interest in this agreement or the operating partner or such controlling oowner ownership interest in you within this time period is a breach of this agreement. the term disability means a mental or physical disability impairment or condition that is reasonably expected to prevent or actually does prevent you or the operating partner or such controlling ownerperson from supervising the management and operation of your studio. upon in the event of the death of you if you are an individual or your operating partner if you are an entity if your studio is not otherwise being managed by an general manager the deceased person executor administrator conservator guardian or other personal representative must within a reasonable time not to exceed fifteen days from the date of death or disability appoint a manager who we approve and who has completed our then current manager training and coach training to supervise the day to day operations of your studio under the terms of this agreement. additionally if you are an entity upon your operating partner death or disability a new operating partner acceptable to us must be appointed within sixty days. if in our judgment your studio is not being managed properly at any time after etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. in your or the operating partner death or disabilitysole judgment we may but need not assume your studio management or appoint a third party to assume its management in accordance with sections folio and county herein. expiration of this agreement. a your right to acquire successor franchise. when this agreement expires you may acquire a successor franchise to operate your studio as a studio for one additional term of ten years if you give us written notice of your election to acquire a successor franchise no more than two hundred twenty days and no less than one hundred eighty days before this agreement expires if you and each of your owners have substantially complied with this agreement during its term and provided that and in conjunction with section a below you maintain possession of and agree regardless of cost to remodel and or expand your studio add or replace improvements and operating assets and otherwise modify your studio as we require to comply with system standards then applicable for new studios and provided that we may require you to convert your studio into a different brand concept that either we or an affiliate offers including remodeling the studio as necessary adding or replacing improvements and operating assets replacing the marks wherever they appear including without limitation advertising materials stationery and complying with all of the then current system standards applicable to the new brand concept then you may acquire a successor franchise to operate your studio as a studio for one additional term of ten years. you agree toand your owners sign the franchise agreement and all other ancillary documents and guaranties we then use to grant franchises for studios modified as necessary to reflect the fact that it is for a successor franchise which may contain provisions that differ materially from any and all of those contained in this agreement. we you and your owners agree to sign general releases in a form satisfactory to us of any and all claims against us and our owners officers directors employees agents successors and assigns we will waive the initial franchise fee under the new agreement but you must pay a renewal fee. and at the time you give us written notice of your election to acquire a renewal franchise we are then offering franchises for studios in your geographic market area. etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. if you and or your owners fail to meet the conditions set forth in this section you acknowledge that we are not required to offer you a renewal franchise whether or not we had or chose to exercise the right to terminate this agreement during its term under section b b grant of successor franchise. you agree to give us written notice your notice of your election to acquire a successor franchise no more than two hundred twenty days and no less than one hundred eighty days before this agreement expires. if you fail to notify us of your election to acquire a successor franchise within the prescribed time period we need not grant you a successor franchise. we agree to give you written notice our notice not more than ninety days after we receive your notice of our decision to grant you a successor franchise to grant you a successor franchise on the condition that you correct existing deficiencies of your studio or in your operation of your studio to grant you a successor franchise on the condition that you convert your studio into a different brand concept in accordance with section a of this agreement not to grant you a successor franchise based on our determination that you and your owners have not substantially complied with this agreement during its term or were not in full compliance with this agreement and all system standards on the date you gave us written notice of your election to acquire a successor franchise or not to grant you a successor franchise because we no longer maintain a franchise program for studios of the eat the frog or etf fitness brand. if we elect not to grant you a successor franchise our notice will describe the reasons for our decision. if we elect to grant you a successor franchise your right to acquire a successor franchise is subject to your full compliance with all of the terms and conditions of this agreement through the date of its expiration in addition to your compliance with the obligations described in our notice which may include actions to cure any operating deficiencies or to bring your studio into compliance with then applicable system standards. you must immediately cease selling memberships that expire after this agreement expires if you fail to provide us with yyour written nnotice as provided in section above by the deadline required hereunder your notice statesyou notify us that you elect not to renew this agreement or if our notice statesacquire a successor franchise or we notify you that we will not grant you a successor franchise. circa agreements releases. if you satisfy all of the other conditions for a successor franchise you and your owners agree to execute the form of franchise agreement and any ancillary agreements we then customarily use in granting franchises for studios modified as necessary to reflect the fact that it etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. is for a successor franchise which may contain provisions that differ materially from any and all of those contained in this agreement. you and your owners further agree to sign general releases in a form satisfactory to us of any and all claims against us and our owners officers directors employees agents successors and assigns. we will consider your or your owners failure to sign these agreements and releases and to deliver them to us for acceptance and execution together with the successor franchise fee within thirty days after their delivery to you to be an election not to acquire a successor franchise. termination of agreement. a termination by you. if you and your owners are fully complying with this agreement and we materially fail to comply with this agreement and do not correct the failure within thirty days after you deliver written notice of the material failure to us or if we cannot correct the failure within thirty days and cannot give you within thirty days after your notice reasonable evidence of our effort to correct the failure you may terminate this agreement effective an additional thirty days after you deliver to us written notice of termination. your termination of this agreement other than according to this section a will be deemed a termination without cause and a breach of this agreement. b termination by us. we may terminate this agreement effective upon delivery of written notice of termination to you if you or any of your owners have made or make any material misrepresentation or omission in acquiring the franchise or operating your studio you do not open your studio in accordance with the time period set forth in section g studio opening you do not receive our written approval of your studio proposed site and lease within one hundred twentyeighty days of the effective date you or if you are conducting business as an entity your operating partner and your general manager if applicable do not satisfactorily complete the manager training and coach training in accordance with section a initial and ongoing training you abandon or fail to actively operate your studio for more than two consecutive business days or fourteen days during any twelve month period unless you have obtained our prior written approval of the closure you or your owners make or attempt to make any transfer in violation of section transfer etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. you or any of your owners are or have been convicted by a trial court of or plead or have pleaded no contest to a felony you fail to maintain the insurance we require and do not correct the failure within ten days after we deliver written notice of that failure to you you or any of your owners engage in any dishonest or unethical conduct which in our opinion adversely affects your studio reputation or the goodwill associated with the marks you lose the right to occupy the premises whether or not through any fault of yours you or any of your owners knowingly make any unauthorized use or disclosure of any part of the operations manual or any other confidential information you violate any health safety or sanitation law ordinance or regulation or operate your studio in an unsafe manner and do not begin to cure the violation immediately and correct the violation within seventy two hours after you receive notice from us or any other party you violate any other applicable law regulation ordinance or consent decree or fail to maintain any bond license or permit and do not cure such violation or failure within ten days after we or any applicable government agency deliver notice to you of that violation or failure you fail to pay us or our affiliates any amounts due and do not correct the failure within ten days after we deliver written notice of that failure to you you fail to pay when due any federal or state income service sales or other taxes due on your studio operation unless you are in good faith contesting your liability for these taxes you have insufficient funds in your designated account to cover your payments owed for royalties marketing fund contributions and other amounts due on three separate occasions within a twelve month period you understate your studio gross sales three times or more during this agreement term or by more than five percent on any one occasion you or any of your owners a fail on three or more separate occasions within any twelve consecutive month period to comply with this agreement whether or not we notify you of the failures and if we do notify you of the failures whether or not you correct the failures after our delivery of notice to you or fail on two or more separate occasions within any twelve consecutive month period to comply with the same obligation under this agreement whether or not we etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. notify you of the failures and if we do notify you of the failures whether or not you correct the failures after our delivery of notice to you you make an assignment for the benefit of creditors or admit in writing your insolvency or inability to pay your debts generally as they become due you consent to the appointment of a receiver trustee or liquidator of all or the substantial part of your property your studio is attached seized subjected to a writings or distress warrant or levied upon unless the attachment seizure writings warrant or levy is vacated within thirty days or any order appointing a receiver trustee or liquidator of you or your studio is not vacated within thirty days following the order entry your or any of your owners assets property or interests are blocked under any law ordinance or regulation relating to terrorist activities or you or any of your owners otherwise violate any such law ordinance or regulation you fail to pay the lessor of your premises rent or any other amounts due under the lease within thirty days after the due date you or any of your owners fail to comply with any other provision of this agreement any other agreement you have entered with us or any system standard and do not correct the failure within thirty days after we deliver written notice of the failure to you there is a termination of any other franchise agreement or the area representative or regional developmenter agreement and or other agreement between you or your affiliates and us us or any of our affiliates on the one hand and you your owners or any other affiliate of you or your owners on the other hand you receive a failing grade on two or more separate mystery shopper examinations within any twelve consecutive month period or you fail to pay when due any third party supplier and do not cure such failure within the applicable cure period. circa assumption of management. in addition to the rights described in sections folio and g regarding replacing the operating partner we have the right but not the obligation under the circumstances described below to enter the premises and assume your studio management or to appoint a third party to assume its management for any period of time we deem appropriate. all funds from your studio operation while it is under our or the third party management will be kept in a separate account and all expenses will be charged to this account. if we or a third party assume your studio management under clauses and below you agree to pay us in addition to the royalty marketing fund contributions and other amounts due to us or our affiliates four hundred dollars per day as may be adjusted from time to time for inflationary purposes then current management service fee plus our or the third party direct out of pocket costs and expenses for up to sixty days after we assume management. during the etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. term of this agreement we may adjust the amount of this daily fee from time to time by an amount that is commensurate with inflation. if we or a third party assume your studio management you acknowledge that we or the third party will have a duty to use only reasonable efforts and will not be liable to you or your owners for any debts losses or obligations your studio incurs or to any of your creditors for any supplies products or other assets or services your studio purchases while we or the third party manage it. we or a third party may assume your studio management under the following circumstances if you abandon or fail actively to operate your studio if you fail to comply with any provision of this agreement or any system standard and do not cure the failure within the time period we specify in our notice to you or if this agreement is terminated and we are deciding whether to exercise our option to purchase your studio under section east our right to purchase your studio. if we exercise our rights under clauses or above that will not affect our right to terminate this agreement under section b termination by us. our and your rights and obligations upon termination or expiration of this agreement. a payment of amounts owed to us. you agree to pay us within fifteen days after this agreement expires or is terminated or on any later date that we determine the amounts due to us or our affiliates including the royalties marketing fund contributions interest and all other amounts owed to us and our affiliates which then are unpaid. we have the right to set off any amount you or your owners owe us or our affiliates against any amounts we or our affiliates owe you or your owners. you acknowledge and agree that upon the termination or expiration of this agreement we shall not become responsible for paying any other third party amounts you may owe to such member or third party. b lost revenue damages in addition ifif we terminate this agreement is terminated by you other than in accordance with section a or by us according tobecause of your breach or if you terminate this agreement terms and conditionswithout cause you and we agree that it would be difficult if not impossible to determine the amount of damages that we would suffer. you therefore must pay us liquidated damages due to the loss or interruption of the revenue stream we otherwise would have derived from your continued payment of royalties and that the marketing fund and local advertising cooperatives would have otherwise derived from your continued contributions to those funds through the remainder of the term of this agreement. therefore you and we agree that a reasonable estimate of such damages less any cost savings we might have experienced the lost revenue damages is an amount equal to the net present value of the royalties marketing fund contributions and local advertising cooperative contributions that would have become due had this agreement not been terminated from the date of etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. termination to the earlier of a three years following the date of termination or the scheduled expiration of the then current term of franchise agreement the measurement period. damagesterm of this agreement. for the purposes of this section b royalties marketing fund contributions and local advertising cooperative contributions will be calculated by multiplying the number of calendar months in the measurement period by based on the average monthly gross sales of theyour studio during the twelve full calendar months immediately preceding the termination date howeverprovided that if as of the termination date theyour studio has not been operating for at least twelve months damagesroyalties marketing fund contributions and local advertising cooperative contributions will be calculated based on the average monthly gross sales during our previous fiscal year immediately preceding the termination date of all studios operating under the marks during the entirety of thatour fiscal year immediately preceding the termination date. you agree to pay us lost revenue damages as calculated in accordance with this section b within fifteen days after this agreement is terminated. you and we agree that the calculation described in this section b is a calculation only of the lost revenue damages and that nothing herein shall preclude or limit us from proving and recovering any other damages caused by your breach of the agreement. circa b marksde identification. upon termination or expiration of this agreement or upon transfer of this agreement with respect to the transferring parties you and your owners must immediately removal of signs and marks. in the case of expiration of this agreement you must remove all signs containing any mark and return to us or destroy all items forms and materials containing any mark or otherwise identifying or relating to a studio on or before the date on which this agreement expires. in the case of a termination of this agreement you must remove all signs containing any mark and return to us or destroy all items forms and materials containing any mark or otherwise identifying or relating to a studio within seven days after the date this agreement is terminated.close the studio for business to customers and cease to directly or indirectly sell any products and services of any kind and in any manner from the studio and or using the marks unless we direct you otherwise in connection with our exercise of our option to purchase pursuant to section east or our approval of a transfer under section county additional delaware identification requirements. when this agreement expires or is terminated unless we direct you otherwise in connection with our exercise of our option to purchase pursuant to section east or our approval of a transfer under section county promptly and at your own expense remove all interior and exterior signs containing any mark or that display our trade dress and return to us or destroy as we require all items other forms and materials containing any mark or otherwise identifying the studio or that would in any way indicate that the premises are or were associated with our brand or franchise system a you and your owners may notcease to directly or indirectly at any time or in any manner except with other studios you own and operate identify yourself etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. or any business as a current or former studio or as one of our current or former franchise owners use any mark any colorable imitation of a mark orany other indicia of a studio in any manner or for any purpose or use for any purpose or any trade name trade mark or service mark or other commercial symbol that indicates or suggests a connection or association with us in any manner or for any purpose you agree to take the action required to cancel or assign all fictitious or assumed name or equivalent registrations relating to your use of any mark cease to directly or indirectly identify yourself or your business as a current or former studio or as one of our current or former franchise owners except in connection with other studios you operate in compliance with the terms of a valid franchise agreement with us and take the action required to cancel or assign all fictitious or assumed name or equivalent registrations relating to your use of any mark cease using and at our direction either disable or instruct the registrar of any contact information or online presence to transfer exclusive control and access of such contact information or online presence to us or our designee in accordance with our instructions return to us or destroy as we require all items forms and materials containing any mark or otherwise identifying or relating to a studio including copies of any and all confidential information including the operations manual and any and all customer data or other information from your computer system comply with all other system standards we establish from time to time and all applicable laws in connection with the closure and delaware identification of your studio including as it relates to disposing of personal information in any form in your possession or the possession of any of your employees and give us evidence satisfactory to us of your compliance with each of the foregoing obligations within thirty days after the expiration or termination of this agreement. ifif you fail to do so in the required time period you agree to allow ustake any of the actions or refrain from taking any of the actions described above we may take whatever action and sign whatever documents we deem appropriate on your behalf to cure the deficiencies including without liability to you or third parties for trespass or any other claim to enter the premises and remove any signs or other materials containing any marks from your studio. you must reimburse us for all costs and expenses we incur in correcting any such deficiencies. you agree to notify the telephone company and all telephone directory and internet directory publishers of the termination or expiration of your right to use any telephone facsimile or other numbers and telephone directory listings associated with any mark to authorize the transfer of these numbers and directory listings to us or at our direction and or to instruct the listing company to forward all calls made to your numbers to numbers we specify. if you fail to do so we may take whatever action and sign whatever documents we deem appropriate on your behalf to accomplish these etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. events. you agree that as between you and us upon termination or expiration we have the sole right and interest in the telephone numbers and listings and you appoint us as your attorney in fact to direct the telephone company to assign the same to us and to sign any required documents on your behalf you agree to comply with all applicable laws in connection with the closure or delaware identification of your studio including laws which require you to refund membership fees to members you agree immediately to cease using any email address that is associated with a domain name we own or the marks if applicable you agree immediately to i cease using or operating any website or other online presences or electronic mediums including but not limited to social networking websites such as linkedin twitter instagram pinterest facebook or youtube related to your studio or the marks ii take any action as may be required to disable such websites or social networking website accounts and iii cancel all rights in and to any accounts for such websites and you agree to give us within thirty days after the expiration or termination of this agreement evidence satisfactory to us of your compliance with each of the foregoing obligations. circa confidential information. you agree that when this agreement expires or is terminated you will immediately cease using any of our confidential information including computer software or similar technology digital passwords and identifications that we have licensed to you or that otherwise are proprietary to us or the franchise system and membership information in any business or otherwise and return to us all copies of the operations manual and any other confidential information that we have loaned you. d memberships. upon termination or expiration you must deliver to us in the format we require all membership information and notify all members of your studio immediately that your studio will cease to operate under the marks. if this agreement is being terminated or expiring without renewal we may contact members of your studio and offer such members continued rights to use one or more other studios on such terms and conditions we deem appropriate which in no event will include assumption of any then existing liability arising out of or relating to any membership agreement or act or failure to act by you or your studio. if upon expiration or termination of this agreement members of your studio are legally entitled to full or partial refund of any monies paid to you you will refund such monies promptly and in full and will cooperate with us to preserve goodwill with such members. if you fail to refund your members as required pursuant to this section d we reserve the right to refund etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. such members in order to preserve goodwill and prevent damage to the marks and you will reimburse us for all amounts we refund to members of your studio. east our right to purchase your studio. exercise of option. upon a our termination of this agreement according to its terms and conditions or your termination of this agreement other than in accordance with section a we have the option exercisable by giving you written notice within thirty days after the date of termination to purchase your studio and the premises if you or one of your affiliates owns the premises. if neither you nor any of your owners or affiliates owns the premises or we choose not to acquire the premises we have the option to exercise the rights under subparagraph below. we have the unrestricted right to assign this option to purchase. if we purchase your studio and or the premises we are entitled to all customary warranties and representations in our asset purchase including representations and warranties as to ownership and condition of and title to assets liens and encumbrances on assets validity of contracts and agreements and liabilities affecting the assets contingent or otherwise. rights to premises. if you lease the premises from an unaffiliated lessor or if we choose not to purchase the premises as set out in subparagraph above you agree as applicable you must at our election a a to assign your leasehold interest in the premises to us or to enter into a sublease with us for the remainder of the lease term on the same terms including renewal options as the lease or. if you own the premises and if we choose not to purchase the premises as set out in subparagraph above you must to lease the premises to us for an initial term of ten years with at our option up to three additional terms of ten years each on commercially reasonable terms. purchase price. the purchase price for your studio and if applicable the purchase price for ownership of the premises will be the reasonable fair market value provided that these items will not include any value for a a the franchise or any rights granted by this agreement goodwill attributable to our marks brand image and other intellectual property or participation in the network of studios. we may exclude from the assets purchased any operating assets and supplies that are not reasonably necessary in etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. function or quality to your studio operation or that we have not approved as meeting standards for studios and the purchase price will reflect these exclusions. appraisal. if we and you cannot agree on fair market value fair market value will be determined by one independent accredited appraiser who will conduct an appraisal and in doing so be bound by the criteria specified in subparagraph. if we and you cannot agree on an independent appraiser you will select one appraiser we will select one appraiser and these two appraisers will appoint a third appraiser to determine the fair market value. you and we agree to select an appraiser within fifteen days after we notify you that we wish to exercise our purchase option if you and we have not agreed on fair market value before then and if necessary the two appraisers selected by you and us are obligated to appoint the actual appraiser within fifteen days after the last of the two is selected. you and we will share equally the appraisers fees and expenses. the appraiser must complete its appraisal within thirty days after its appointment. the purchase price will be the appraised value. closing. we or our assignee will pay the purchase price at the closing which will take place not later than sixty days after the purchase price is determined although we or our assignee may decide after the purchase price is determined not to purchase your studio and or the premises. we may set off against the purchase price and reduce the purchase price by any and all amounts you or your owners owe us or our affiliates. at the closing you agree to deliver instruments transferring to us or our assignee a good and merchantable title to the assets purchased free and clear of all liens and encumbrances other than liens and security interests acceptable to us with all sales and other transfer taxes paid by you all of your studio licenses and permits which may be assigned or transferred the ownership interest or leasehold interest as applicable in the premises and improvements or a lease assignment or lease or sublease as applicable and accounts receivable from members and membership agreements listed in computer readable format. if you cannot deliver clear title to all of the purchased assets or if there are other unresolved issues we and you will close the sale through an escrow. you and your owners further agree to execute general releases in a form satisfactory to us of any and all claims against us and our owners officers managers employees agents successors and assigns. fahrenheit covenant not to compete. upon termination or expiration of this agreement you and your owners agree that for two years beginning on the effective date of termination or expiration or the date on which all etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. persons restricted by this section folio begin to comply with this section folio whichever is later neither you nor any of your owners or their immediate family members will have any direct or indirect interest as an owner whether of record beneficially or otherwise investor partner director officer employee consultant representative or agent in any competitive business located or operating at the premises within a ten mile radius of the premises or within a ten mile radius of any other studio in operation or under construction on the later of the effective date of the termination or expiration of this agreement or the date on which all persons restricted by this section folio begin to comply with this section fahrenheit these restrictions also apply after transfers as provided in section county above. if any person restricted by this section folio refuses voluntarily to comply with these obligations the two year period for that person will commence with the entry of a court order enforcing this provision. you and your owners expressly acknowledge that you possess skills and abilities of a general nature and have other opportunities for exploiting these skills. consequently our enforcing the covenants made in this section folio will not deprive you of your personal goodwill or ability to earn a living. g non solicitation and non interference. upon termination or expiration of this agreement you and your owners agree that for two years beginning on the effective date of termination or expiration or the date on which all persons restricted by this section g begin to comply with this section g whichever is later neither you nor any of your owners or their immediate family members will recruit or hire any person who is then or was within the immediately preceding twenty four months employed by us any of our affiliates or one of our franchise owners including without limitation any coach of any studio without our consent or that of the relevant employer solicit interfere or attempt to interfere with our or our affiliates relationships with any members vendorssuppliers franchisees regional developers or consultants or. engage in any other activity that might injure the goodwill of the marks and or the franchise system. h continuing obligations. all of our and your and your owners obligations which expressly or by their nature survive this agreement expiration or termination will continue in full force and effect subsequent to and notwithstanding its expiration or termination and until they are satisfied in full etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. or by their nature expire including restrictive covenants confidentiality indemnification and dispute resolution. relationship of the parties indemnification. a independent contractors. you and we understand and agree that this agreement does not create a fiduciary relationship between you and us that you and we are and will be independent contractors and that nothing in this agreement is intended to make either you or us a general or special agent joint venturer partner or employee of the other for any purpose. you agree to identify yourself conspicuously in all dealings with members suppliers public officials studio personnel and others as your studio owner under a franchise we have granted and to place notices of independent ownership on the forms business cards stationery advertising and other materials we require from time to time. b no liability for acts of other party. we and you may not make any express or implied agreements warranties guarantees or representations or incur any debt in the name or on behalf of the other or represent that our respective relationship is other than franchisor and franchise owner. we will not be obligated for any damages to any person or property directly or indirectly arising out of your studio operation or the business you conduct under this agreement. circa taxes. we will have no liability for any sales use service occupation excise gross revenue income property or other taxes whether levied upon you or your studio due to the business you conduct except for our income taxes. you are responsible for paying these taxes and must reimburse us for any taxes that we must pay to any state taxing authority on account of either your operation or payments that you make to us. d indemnification. you agree to indemnify defend and hold harmless us our affiliates and our and their respective shareholders directors officers employees agents successors and assignees the indemnified parties against and to reimburse any one or more of the indemnified parties for all claims obligations and damages directly or indirectly arising out of your studio operation the business you conduct under this agreement or your breach of this agreement including those alleged to be or found to have been caused by the indemnified party gross negligence or willful misconduct unless and then only to the extent that the claims obligations or damages are determined to be caused solely by our gross negligence or willful misconduct in a final unappealable ruling issued by a court or arbitrator with competent jurisdiction. for purposes of this indemnification claims include all obligations damages actual consequential or otherwise and costs that any indemnified party reasonably incurs in etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. defending any claim against it including reasonable accountants arbitrators attorneys and expert witness fees costs of investigation and proof of facts court costs travel and living expenses and other expenses of litigation arbitration or alternative dispute resolution regardless of whether litigation arbitration or alternative dispute resolution is commenced. each indemnified party may defend any claim against it at your expense and agree to settlements or take any other remedial corrective or other actions. this indemnity will continue in full force and effect subsequent to and notwithstanding this agreement expiration or termination. an indemnified party need not seek recovery from any insurer or other third party or otherwise mitigate its losses and expenses in order to maintain and recover fully a claim for indemnity under this section. you agree that a failure to pursue a recovery or mitigate a loss will not reduce or alter the amounts that an indemnified party may recover under this section. enforcement. a severability and substitution of valid provisions. except as expressly provided to the contrary in this agreement each section paragraph term and provision of this agreement is severable and if for any reason any part is held to be invalid or contrary to or in conflict with any applicable present or future law or regulation in a final unappealable ruling issued by any court agency or tribunal with competent jurisdiction that ruling will not impair the operation of or otherwise affect any other portions of this agreement which will continue to have full force and effect and bind the parties. if any covenant which restricts competitive activity is deemed unenforceable by virtue of its scope in terms of area business activity prohibited and or length of time but would be enforceable if modified you and we agree that the covenant will be enforced to the fullest extent permissible under the laws and public policies applied in the jurisdiction whose law determines the covenant validity. if any applicable and binding law or rule of any jurisdiction requires more notice than this agreement requires of this agreement termination or of our refusal to enter into a successor franchise agreement or some other action that this agreement does not require or if under any applicable and binding law or rule of any jurisdiction any provision of this agreement or any system standard is invalid unenforceable or unlawful the notice and or other action required by the law or rule will be substituted for the comparable provisions of this agreement and we may modify the invalid or unenforceable provision or system standard to the extent required to be valid and enforceable or delete the unlawful provision in its entirety. you agree to be bound by any promise or covenant imposing the maximum duty the law permits which is subsumed within any provision of this agreement as though it were separately articulated in and made a part of this agreement. b waiver of obligations. we and you may by written instrument unilaterally waive or reduce any obligation of or restriction upon the other under this agreement effective upon delivery of written notice to the etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. other or another effective date stated in the notice of waiver. any waiver granted will be without prejudice to any other rights we or you have will be subject to continuing review and may be revoked at any time and for any reason effective upon delivery of ten days prior written notice. we and you will not waive or impair any right power or option this agreement reserves including our right to demand exact compliance with every term condition and covenant or to declare any breach to be a default and to terminate this agreement before its term expires because of any custom or practice at variance with this agreement terms our or your failure refusal or neglect to exercise any right under this agreement or to insist upon the other compliance with this agreement including any system standard our waiver of or failure to exercise any right power or option whether of the same similar or different nature with other studios the existence of franchise agreements for other studios which contain provisions different from those contained in this agreement or our acceptance of any payments due from you after any breach of this agreement. no special or restrictive legend or endorsement on any check or similar item given to us will be a waiver compromise settlement or accord and satisfaction. we are authorized to remove any legend or endorsement which then will have no effect. neither we nor you will be liable for loss or damage or be in breach of this agreement if our or your failure to perform our or your obligations results from compliance with the orders requests regulations or recommendations of any federal state or municipal government acts of god fires strikes embargoes war acts of terrorism or similar events or riot or any other similar event or cause. any delay resulting from any of these causes will extend performance accordingly or excuse performance in whole or in part as may be reasonable except that these causes will not excuse payments of amounts owed at the time of the occurrence or payment of royalties or marketing fund contributions due afterward. circa costs and attorneys fees. the prevailing party in any arbitration or litigation arising out of or relating to this agreement shall be entitled to recover from the other party all damages costs and expenses including arbitration and court costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by the prevailing party in successfully enforcing any provision of this agreementconnection with such arbitration or litigation. d rights of parties are cumulative. our and your rights under this agreement are cumulative and our or your exercise or enforcement of any right or remedy under this agreement will not preclude our or your exercise or enforcement of any other right or remedy which we or you are entitled by law to enforce. east arbitration. we and you agree that all controversies disputes or claims between us or any of our affiliates and our and their respective shareholders officers directors agents and employees etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. on the one hand and you and your owners guarantors aaffiliates and employees on the other hand arising out of or related to. this agreement or any other agreement between you or any of your owners and us or any of our affiliates. our relationship with you. the scope or validity of this agreement or any other agreement between you or any of your owners and us or any of our affiliates or any provision of any of such agreements including the validity and scope of the arbitration provision under this section east which we and you acknowledge is to be determined by an arbitrator not a court or any system standard must be submitted for binding arbitration on demand of either party to the american arbitration association the aaa. the arbitration proceedings will be conducted by one arbitrator and except as this section otherwise provides according to the aaa then then current commercial arbitration rules of the american arbitration association. all proceedings will be conducted at a suitable location chosen by the arbitrator in orthat is within miles of our then then current principal place of business currently issaquah washington. all matters relating to arbitration will be governed by the federal arbitration act. et seq. the decisioninterim and final awards of the arbitrationor shall be final and binding upon each party and judgment upon the arbitrator awards may be enforcedentered in any court of competent jurisdiction. the arbitrator has the right to award or include in his or her awards any relief which he or she deems proper including without limitation money damages with pre and post award interest on unpaid amounts from the date due interim costs and attorneys fees specific performance and injunctive relief and attorneys fees and costs provided that the arbitrator may not declare any of the trademarks owned by us or our affiliates generic or otherwise invalid or except as expressly provided in this section award any punitive or exemplary or multiple damages against any party to the arbitration proceeding we and you hereby waiving to the fullest extent permitted by law any such right to or claim for any punitive or exemplary or multiple damages against any party to the arbitration proceedings. further at the conclusion of the arbitration the arbitrator shall award to the prevailing party its attorneys fees and costs. we and you agree to be bound by the provisions of any applicable contractual or statutory limitations provision whichever expires earlier. we and you further agree that in any arbitration proceeding each party must submit or file any claim which would constitute a compulsory counterclaim as defined by rule of the federal rules of civil procedure within the same proceeding. any claim which is not submitted or filed as required will be forever barred. the arbitrator may not consider any settlement discussions or offers that might have been made by either you or us. we and you agree that arbitration will be conducted on an individual not a class wide basis and that an arbitration proceeding between us and any of our affiliates or our and their respective etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. shareholders officers directors agents and employees on the one hand and you or your owners guarantors affiliates and employees on the other hand may not be conducted on class wide basis ii commenced conducted or consolidated with any other arbitration proceeding iii joined with any separate claim of an unaffiliated third party or iv brought on your behalf by any association or agent. notwithstanding the foregoing if any court or arbitrator determines that all or any part of the preceding sentence is unenforceable with respect to a dispute controversy or claim that otherwise would be subject to arbitration under this section then all parties agree that this arbitration clause shall not apply to that dispute controversy or claim and that such dispute controversy or claim shall be resolved in a judicial proceeding in accordance with the dispute resolution provisions of this agreement. despite our and your agreement to arbitrate we and you each have the right in a proper case to seek temporary restraining orders and temporary or preliminary injunctive relief from a court of competent jurisdiction provided however that we and you must contemporaneously submit our dispute controversy or claim for arbitration on the merits as provided in this section. youwe and weyou agree that in any arbitration arising as described in this section the arbitrator shall have full authority to manage any necessary exchange of information among the parties with a view to achieving an efficient and economical resolution of the dispute. the parties may only serve reasonable requests for documents shall which must be limited to documents upon which a party intends to rely or documents that are directly relevant toand material to a significant disputed issues in the case or to the case outcome. the document requests shall be restricted in terms of time frame subject matter and persons or entities to which the requests pertain and shall not include broad phraseology such as all documents directly or indirectly related to. you and we further agree that no interrogatories or requests to admit shall be propounded. with respect to any electronic discovery you and we unless the parties later mutually agree that to their use. with respect to any discovery of electronically stored information you and we agree that such requests must balance the need for production of electronically stored information relevant and material to the outcome of a disputed issue against the cost of locating and producing such information. you and we agree that. production of electronically documentsstored information need only be from sources used in the ordinary course of business. no such documentsparty shall be required to besearch for or produced information from back up servers tapes or other media. the production of electronically documentsstored information shall normally be made on the basis of generally available technology in a searchable format which is usable by the party receiving the documentsinformation and convenient and economical for the producing party. absent a showing of compelling need the parties need not produce metadata with the exception of header fields for email correspondence. the description of custodians from whom electronically documentsstored information may be collected shall be narrowly tailored to include only those individuals etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. whose electronically documentsstored information may reasonably be expected to contain evidence that is relevant and material to the outcome of a disputed issue and. the parties shall attempt to agree in advance upon and the arbitrator may determine reasonable search parameters and. where the costs and burdens of electronic discovery are disproportionate to the nature of the dispute or to the amount in controversy or to the relevance of the materials requested the arbitrator shall either deny such requests or order disclosure on condition that the requesting party advance the reasonable cost of production to the other side subject to allocation of costs in thewhich cost advance will not be awarded to the prevailing party in any final award as provided herein. in any arbitration arising out of or related to this agreement each side may take no more than three depositions unless the parties mutually agree to additional depositions. each side depositions are to consume no more than a total of hours and each deposition shall be limited to hours. there are to be no speaking objections at the depositions except to preserve privilege unless the parties mutually agree to additional time. the provisions of this section are intended to benefit and bind certain third partythird party non signatories and. the provisions of this section will continue in full force and effect subsequent to and notwithstanding the expiration or termination of this agreement. any provisions of this agreement below that pertain to judicial proceedings shall be subject to the agreement to arbitrate contained in this section. fahrenheit governing law. all matters relating to arbitration will be governed by the federal arbitration act. et seq. except to the extent governed by the federal arbitration act the united states trademark act of lanham act. sections et seq. or other federal law this agreement the franchise and all claims arising from the relationship between us and you will be governed by the laws of the state of washington without regard to its conflict of laws rules except that any state law regulating the sale of franchises or governing the relationship of a franchisor and its franchisee will not apply unless its jurisdictional requirements are met independently without reference to this section. all matters relating to arbitration will be governed by the federal arbitration act. et seq. except to the extent governed by the federal arbitration act the united states trademark act of lanham act. sections et seq. or other federal law this agreement the franchise and all claims arising from the relationship between us and you will be governed by the laws of the state of washington without regard to its conflict of laws rules except that any state law regulating the offer or sale of franchises or governing the relationship of franchisor and its franchisee will not apply unless its etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. jurisdictional requirements are met independently without reference to this section. g consent to jurisdiction. subject to section east above and the provisions below we and you and your owners agree that all actions arising under this agreement or otherwise as a result of the relationship between you and us must be commenced in state or federal court closest to our then current principal place of business currently issaquah washington and we and you and each owner irrevocably consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of those courts and waive any objection to either the jurisdiction of or venue in those courts. nonetheless we and you and your owners agree that any of us may enforce any arbitration orders and awards in the courts of the state or states in which you are domiciled or your studio is located. h waiver of punitive damages and jury trial. except for your obligation to indemnify us for third party claims under section d and except for punitive damages available to either party under federal law we and you and your owners waive to the fullest extent permitted by law any right to or claim for any punitive or exemplary or multiple damages against the other and agree that in the event of dispute between us and you the party making claim will be limited to equitable relief and to recovery of any actual damages it sustains. we and you irrevocably waive trial by jury in any action or proceeding or counterclaim whether at law or in equity brought by either of us. i inju nctive relief. nothing in this agreement including the provisions of section east bars our right to obtain specific performance of the provisions of this agreement and injunctive relief against any threatened or actual conduct that will cause us the marks or the franchise system loss or damage under customary equity rules including applicable rules for obtaining restraining orders and temporary or preliminary injunctions. you agree that we may seek such relief from any court of competent jurisdiction in addition to such further or other relief as may be available to us at law or in equity. you agree that we will not be required to post a bond to obtain injunctive relief and that your only remedy if an injunction is entered against you will be the dissolution of that injunction if warranted upon due hearing all claims for damages by injunction being expressly waived hereby. j i binding effect. this agreement is binding upon us and you and our and your respective executors administrators heirs beneficiaries permitted assigns and successors in interest. subject to our etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. right to modify the operations manual and system standards this agreement may not be modified except by a written agreement signed by both our and your duly authorized officers. kelvin j limitations of claims and class action bar. except for claims arising from your non payment or underpayment of amounts you owe us any and all claims arising out of or relating to this agreement or our relationship with you will be barred unless judicial or arbitration proceeding is commenced in accordance with this agreement within one year from the date on which the party asserting the claim knew or should have known of the facts giving rise to the claims. however the parties agree that in order to comply with this provision either party may commence judicial or arbitration proceeding before related mediation proceeding is declared completed. we and you agree that any proceeding will be conducted on an individual basis and that any proceeding between us and any of our affiliates or our and their respective shareholders officers directors agents and employees on the one hand and you or your owners guarantors affiliates and employees on the other hand may not be conducted on class wide basis ii commenced conducted or consolidated with any other proceeding iii joined with any claim of an unaffiliated third party or iv brought on your behalf by any association or agent. any proceeding will be conducted on an individual not class wide basis and proceeding between us and you or your owners may not be consolidated with another proceeding between us and any other person or entity nor may any claims of another party or parties be joined with any claims asserted in any action or proceeding between us and you. no previous course of dealing shall be admissible to explain modify or contradiction the terms of this agreement. no implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing shall be used to alter the express terms of this agreement. line kelvin construction. the preambles and exhibits are a part of this agreement which together with the system standards contained in the operations manual which may be periodically modified as provided in this agreement and the related documents constitutes our and your entire agreement and there are no other oral or written understandings or agreements between us and you or oral or written representations by us relating to the subject matter of this agreement the franchise relationship or your studio. any understandings or agreements reached or any representations made before this agreement are superseded by this agreement. nothing in this or in any related etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. agreement however is intended to disclaim the representations we made in the franchise disclosure document that we furnished to you. any policies that we adopt and implement from time to time to guide us in our decision making are subject to change are not a part of this agreement and are not binding on us. except as expressly provided in this agreement nothing in this agreement is intended or deemed to confer any rights or remedies upon any person or legal entity not a party to this agreement. except where this agreement expressly obligates us reasonably to approve or not unreasonably to withhold our approval of any of your actions or requests we have the absolute right to refuse any request you make or to withhold our approval of any of your proposed initiated or completed actions that require our approval in our sole and unfettered discretion. the headings of the sections and paragraphs are for convenience only and do not define limit or construe the contents of these sections or paragraphs. references in this agreement to we us and our with respect to all of our rights and all of your obligations to us under this agreement include any of our affiliates with whom you deal. the term affiliate means any person or entity directly or indirectly owned or controlled by under common control with or owning or controlling you or us. the term control means the power to direct or cause the direction of management and policies. the use of the term including in this agreement means in each case including without limitation. if two or more persons are at any time the owners of your studio whether as partners or joint venturers their obligations and liabilities to us will be joint and several. references to owner mean any person holding a direct or indirect ownership interest whether of record beneficially or otherwise or voting rights in you or a transferee of this agreement and your studio or an ownership interest in you including any person who has a direct or indirect interest in you or a transferee this agreement or your studio and any person who has any other legal or equitable interest or the power to vest in himself or herself any legal or equitable interest in their revenue profits rights or assets. references to a controlling ownership interest in you or one of your owners if an entity mean the percent of the voting shares or other voting rights that results from dividing one hundred percent of the ownership interests by the number of owners. in the case of a proposed transfer of an ownership interest in you or one of your owners the determination of whether a controlling ownership interest is involved must be made as of both immediately before and immediately after the proposed transfer to see if a controlling ownership interest will be transferred because of the number of owners before the proposed transfer or will be deemed to have been transferred because of the number of owners after the proposed transfer. the term person means any natural person corporation limited liability company general or limited partnership unincorporated association cooperative or other legal or functional entity. etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. unless otherwise specified all references to a number of days shall mean calendar days and not business days. the term your studio includes all of the assets of the studio you operate under this agreement including its revenue and the lease. the term member or members includes all customers of the studio whether monthly members one timeone time customers customers who purchase packages of classes or any other customers or persons having access to your studio. notices and payments. all written notices reports and payments permitted or required to be delivered by this agreement or the operations manual will be deemed to be delivered a i at the time delivered by hand ii at the time delivered via computer transmission and in the case of the royalty marketing fund contributions or andy other amounts dueowed at the time we actually received via electronic payment via the eft authorization iii one business day after transmission by facsimile or other electronic system if the sender has confirmation of successful transmission one business day after being placed in the hands of a nationally recognized commercial courier service for next business day delivery or iv three business days after placement in the united states mail by registered or certified mail return receipt requested postage prepaid. any notice must be sent to the party to be notified at its most current principal business address of which the notifying party has notice and or with respect to any approvals and except that it will always be deemed acceptable to send notices that we provide to you or your owners at your studiosat the address. of the premises any required payment or report which we do not actually receive during regular business hours on the date due or postmarked by postal authorities at least two days before then will be deemed delinquent. business judgment. we retain the right to operate develop and change the franchise system and the products and services offered by studios in any manner that is not specifically prohibited in this agreement. whenever we have reserved the right in this agreement to take or refrain from taking any action or to prohibit you from taking or refraining from any action we may except as otherwise specifically provided in this agreement make our decision or exercise our rights based on the information then readily available to us and on our judgment of what is in our best interests the best interests of our affiliates and or the best interests of studios as a whole at the time the decision is made regardless of whether we could have made other reasonable or even arguably preferable alternative decisions and regardless of whether our decision or action promotes our interests those of our affiliates or any other person or entity. etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. execution this agreement may be executed in counterparts each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement. this agreement and all other documents related to this agreement may be executed by manual or electronic signature. either party may rely on the receipt of a document executed or delivered electronically as if an original had been received. signature page to follow etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. in witness whereof the parties have executed and delivered this agreement on the dates noted below to be effective as of the effective date. etf franchising llc a washington limited liability company by name title dated effective date of this agreement franchise owner if you are corporation limited liability company or partnership entity name signature name title dated franchise owner if you are an individual and not legal entity signature print name dated etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. exhibit to the franchise agreement effective date this exhibit is current and complete as of you and your owners. form of owner. form. you operate as a individual sole proprietorship corporation limited liability company or partnership check one. a individual proprietorship. your owner is are as follows. corporation limited liability company or partnership. circle one formation you were incorporated or formed on datedate under the laws of the state of. you have not conducted business under any name other than your corporate limited liability company or partnership name and insert any assumed name or dba that you have used jurisdiction. management the following is a list of your directors if applicable and officers as of the effective date shown above managers or anyone else with a management position or title name of each director officerindividual position held. owners. the following list includes the full name of each individual who is one of your owners or an owner of one of your owners and fully describes the nature of each owner interest attach additional pages if necessary. owner name percentage description of interest etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. a name and address of operating partner. a name. postal addressoperating partner. mail addressdesignated manager if applicable telephone number fax number signature page follows etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. etf franchising llc a washington limited liability company by name title dated franchise owner if you are corporation limited liability company or partnership entity name signature name title dated franchise owner if you are an individual and not legal entity signature print name dated etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. exhibit to the franchise agreement premises and site selection area territory. the premises of your studio island the site selection area is or the following map shows and or describes the boundaries of the site selection area. the territory mapis if the premises have been selected and approved and the parties desire to use a map to show and or describe the territory or the following territory mmap shows and or describes the geographic boundaries of the territory etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. acknowledgment and agreement of the premises and territory by us and you to be signed once the premises are approved by us the premises are purchased or leased by you and the territory is agreed to by the parties etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. as acknowledged and agreed as of the effective date and or to be updated and signed by us and you once the premises is approved and secured and the territory is agreed to by the parties etf franchising llc a washington limited liability company by name title dated franchise owner if you are corporation limited liability company or partnership entity name signature name title dated franchise owner if you are an individual and not legal entity signature print name dated etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. exhibit to the franchise agreement non competition and confidentiality agreement this non competition and confidentiality agreement the agreement is made and entered into as of this day of by and among employer and employee. recitals. employer is a party to a franchise agreement the franchise agreement with etf franchising llc franchisor under which franchisor granted employer certain rights with regard to an eat the frog studio a studio. employer has hired employee to perform services as a coach at employer studio. before allowing employee to have access to the confidential information and as a material term of the franchise agreement necessary to protect franchisor confidential know how and distinctive systems business formats business system methods procedures signs designs layouts standards specifications and trademarks required by franchisor from time to time for use in the operation of employer studio the franchise system employer requires that employee enter into this agreement and. as a condition of employment or continued employment by employer employee has agreed to enter into this agreement. definitions. certain terms that are capitalized in this agreement are defined in this section or at the places they first appear. a the term competitive business as used in this agreement means any business excluding any studios operated under a franchise agreement with franchisor or its affiliate operating or granting franchises or licenses to others to operate any fitness or workout facility. the term confidential information as used in this agreement means training and operations materials and manuals the franchise system standards and other methods formats specifications standards systems procedures sales and marketing techniques knowledge and experience used in developing and operating studios market research promotional marketing and advertising strategies and programs for studios strategic plans including expansion strategies and targeted demographics knowledge of specifications for and suppliers of and methods of ordering operating assets and other products and supplies any computer software or similar technology which is proprietary to franchisor or the franchise system including digital passwords and identifications and any source code of etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. and data reports and other printed materials generated by the software or similar technology knowledge of the operating results and financial performance of studios other than employer studio information generated by or used or developed in the operation of employer studio including information relating to members such as member names addresses telephone numbers mail addresses buying habits preferences demographic information and related information and any other information contained from time to time in the studio computer system and any other information designated as confidential or proprietary by franchisor. protection of confidential information. employee agrees to use the confidential information only to the extent reasonably necessary to perform his or her duties on behalf of employer taking into consideration the confidential nature of the confidential information. employee may disclose the confidential information only as an agent for employer. employee acknowledges and agrees that neither employee nor any other person or entity will acquire any interest in or right to use the confidential information under this agreement or otherwise other than the right to use it as authorized in this agreement and that the unauthorized use or duplication of the confidential information including without limitation in connection with any other business would be detrimental to franchisor and employer and would constitute a breach of employee obligations of confidentiality and an unfair method of competition with franchisor and or other studios owned by employer or franchised by franchisor. employee acknowledges and agrees that the confidential information is confidential to and a valuable asset of franchisor. the confidential information will be disclosed to employee solely on the condition that employee agrees to the terms and conditions of this agreement. employee therefore agrees that during the term of the franchise agreement and thereafter he or she a will not use the confidential information in any other business or capacity will maintain the absolute confidentiality of the confidential information will not make unauthorized copies of any portion of the confidential information disclosed or in written form and will adopt and implement all reasonable procedures prescribed from time to time by franchisor and employer to prevent the unauthorized use or disclosure of or access to the confidential information. notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this agreement the restrictions on employee do not apply to a disclosure or use of information methods or techniques which are generally known and used in the industry as long as the availability is not because of an unauthorized disclosure by employee or employee agents provided that employee has first given franchisor written notice of his or her intended disclosure and or use and disclosure of the confidential information in legal proceedings when employee is legally required to disclose it provided that employee has first given franchisor the opportunity to obtain an appropriate legal protective order or other assurance satisfactory to franchisor that the information required to be disclosed will be treated confidentially. etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. in term restrictive covenant. employee acknowledges and agrees that franchisor and employer would be unable to protect the confidential information against unauthorized use or disclosure and franchisor would be unable to achieve a free exchange of ideas and information among studios if persons authorized to use the confidential information were permitted to engage in have ownership interests in or perform services for competitive businesses. employee therefore agrees that for as long as employee is employed by employer neither employee nor employee spouse shall i have any direct or indirect interest as a disclosed or beneficial owner in a competitive business or ii perform services as a director officer member employee manager consultant representative agent or otherwise for any competitive business. employee further acknowledges that the restrictions contained in this section will not deprive him or her or members of his or her immediate family of any personal goodwill or ability to earn a living. restrictive covenant upon termination or expiration of the franchise agreement or employee association with employer. upon the first to occur of a termination or expiration without renewal of the franchise agreement or the date as of which employee is no longer an employee of or otherwise providing services to employer each of these events is referred to as a termination event employee agrees that for a period of eighteen months commencing on the effective date of a termination event neither employee nor employee spouse shall have any direct or indirect interest as a disclosed or beneficial owner in or assist accept payments from or perform services as a director officer manager employee consultant representative agent or otherwise for a competitive business located or operating within a mile radius of any studio including employer studio. surrender of documents. employee agrees that as of the effective date of a termination event employee shall immediately cease to use the confidential information disclosed to or otherwise learned or acquired by employee and return to employer or to franchisor if directed by franchisor all copies of the confidential information loaned or made available to employee. injunctive relief and damages. both parties recognize that the services to be rendered by employee for employer are special unique and of an extraordinary character. upon breach of this agreement franchisor or employer shall be entitled if it they so elects to seek injunctive relief in any court of competent jurisdiction to enforce the covenants set forth herein. in addition to injunctive relief franchisor or employer shall be entitled to seek such other and further relief including but not limited to the recovery of damages as may be permitted by law or in equity. employee expressly acknowledges that he she possesses other skills experience education and abilities of a general nature and has other opportunities for exploiting such other skills experience education and abilities to derive income from other endeavors. consequently enforcement of the covenants etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. made in this agreement is fair and reasonable and will not deprive employee of his her personal goodwill or ability to earn a living or otherwise impose any undue hardship on him heraldry employee further acknowledges and agrees that any violation of the covenants contained in this agreement will result in irreparable harm to employer franchisor and its affiliates. if any covenant is held by any arbitrator or court of competent jurisdiction to be broader in time scope or subject matter than legally permitted then the parties authorize the arbitrator or court to impose that covenant to the maximum lawful extent. employer is permitted at any time to reduce the time scope or subject matter of any covenant to render it enforceable under applicable law. costs and attorneys fees. if franchisor or employer is required to enforce this agreement in an action against employee employee shall reimburse franchisor and or employer if it they prevail whether or not awarded a money judgment for its their reasonable attorneys fees whether such fees are incurred before during or after any trial or administrative proceeding or on appeal. waiver. failure to insist upon strict compliance with any of the terms covenants or conditions hereof shall not be deemed a waiver of such term covenant or condition nor shall any waiver or relinquishment of any right or remedy hereunder at any one or more times be deemed a waiver or relinquishment of such right or remedy at any other time or times. severability. each section paragraph term and provision of this agreement and any portion thereof shall be considered severable and if for any reason any such provision is held to be invalid or contrary to or in conflict with any applicable present or future law or regulation in a final unappealable ruling issued by any court agency or tribunal with competent jurisdiction in a proceeding to which franchisor is a party that ruling shall not impair the operation of or have any other effect upon such other portions of this agreement as may remain otherwise intelligible. such other portions shall continue to be given full force and effect and bind the parties hereto. any portion held to be invalid shall be deemed not to be a part of this agreement from the date the time for appeal expires if employee is a party thereto or upon employee receipt of a notice from franchisor that it will not enforce the section paragraph term or provision in question. rights of parties are cumulative. the rights of the parties hereunder are cumulative and no exercise or enforcement by a party hereto of any right or remedy granted hereunder shall preclude the exercise or enforcement by them of any other right or remedy hereunder or which they are entitled by law to enforce. etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. benefit. this agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. franchisor shall be deemed a third party beneficiary of this agreement and shall have the right to enforce this agreement directly. governing law. this agreement and the relationship between the parties hereto shall be construed and governed in accordance with the internal laws of the state of washington without regard to its conflict of laws principles. signature page follows etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. in witness whereof the parties have executed this agreement on the day month and year first set forth above. employee signature name an individual please print your name in the blank provided above employer sign name title etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. exhibit to the franchise agreement guaranty and assumption of obligations this guaranty and assumption of obligations guaranty is given by the persons indicated below who have executed this guaranty each a guarantor to be effective as of the effective date of the agreement defined below. in consideration of and as an inducement to the execution of that certain franchise agreement the agreement by etf franchising llc the franchisor and franchisee each of the undersignedguarantor hereby personally and unconditionally a guarantees to franchisor and its successor and assigns for the term of the agreement and as provided in the agreement that franchisee shall punctually pay and perform each and every undertaking agreement and covenant set forth in the agreement and agrees to be personally bound by and personally liable for the breach of each and every provision in the agreement both monetary obligations and obligations to take or refrain from taking specific actions or to engage or refrain from engaging in specific activities. each of the undersignedguarantor waives acceptance and notice of acceptance by franchisor of the foregoing undertakings notice of demand for payment of any indebtedness or nonperformance of any obligations guaranteed protest and notice of default to any party with respect to the indebtedness or nonperformance of any obligations guaranteed any right he or she may have to require that an action be brought against franchisee or any other person as a condition of liability. each of the undersignedguarantor consents and agrees that his or her direct and immediate liability under this guaranty shall be joint and several he or she shall render any payment or performance required under the agreement upon demand if franchisee fails or refuses punctually to do so liability shall not be contingent or conditioned upon pursuit by franchisor of any remedies against franchisee or any other person liability shall not be diminished relieved or otherwise affected by any extension of time credit or other indulgence which franchisor may grant to franchisee or to any other person including the acceptance of any partial payment or performance or the compromise or release of any claims none of which shall in any way modify or amend this guaranty which shall be continuing and irrevocable during the term of the agreement guarantor is bound by the restrictive covenants confidentiality provisions and indemnification provisions contained in the agreement and at our request guarantor will provide updated financial information to us as may be reasonably necessary to demonstrate his or her ability to satisfy the obligations of the franchise owners under the agreement. each ofby signing below the undersigned guarantorsspouse of each guarantor indicated below acknowledges and consents to the guaranty given herein by his her spouse. such consent also serves to bind the assets of the marital estate to guarantor performance of this guaranty. each guarantor represents and warrants that if no signature appears below for such guarantor spouse such guarantor is either not married or if married is a resident of a state which does not require the consent of both spouses to encumber the assets of a marital estate. etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. guarantor hereby consents and agrees that a guarantor liability under this undertaking shall be direct immediate and independent of the liability of and shall be joint and several with franchisee and the other owners of franchisee guarantor shall render any payment or performance required under the agreement upon demand if franchisee fails or refuses punctually to do so this undertaking will continue unchanged by the occurrence of any bankruptcy with respect to franchisee or any assignee or successor of franchisee or by any abandonment of the agreement by a trustee of franchisee. neither the guarantor obligations to make payment or render performance in accordance with the terms of this undertaking nor any remedy for enforcement shall be impaired modified changed released or limited in any manner whatsoever by any impairment modification change release or limitation of the liability of franchisee or its estate in bankruptcy or of any remedy for enforcement resulting from the operation of any present or future provision of the. bankruptcy act or other statute or from the decision of any court or agency franchisor may proceed against guarantor and franchisee jointly and severally or franchisor may at its option proceed against guarantor without having commenced any action or having obtained any judgment against franchisee. guarantor hereby waives the defense of the statute of limitations in any action hereunder or for the collection of any indebtedness or the performance of any obligation hereby guaranteed each guarantor that is a business entity retirement or investment account or trust acknowledges and agrees that if franchisee or any of its affiliates is delinquent in payment of any amounts guaranteed hereunder that no dividends or distributions may be made by such guarantor or on such guarantor account to its owners accountholders or beneficiaries or otherwise for so long as such delinquency exists subject to applicable law and guarantor agrees to pay all reasonable attorneys fees and all costs and other expenses incurred in any collection or attempt to collect amounts due pursuant to this undertaking or any negotiations relative to the obligations hereby guaranteed or in enforcing this undertaking against such guarantor. each guarantor agrees to be personally bound by the arbitration obligations under section east of the agreement including without limitation the obligation to submit to binding arbitration the claims described in section east of the agreement in accordance with its terms. capitalized terms that are used but not defined in this guaranty will have the meanings ascribed to them in the agreement. signature page follows etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. in witness whereof each of the undersigned has affixed his signature to be effective as of the effective date. guarantor etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. signature print name percentage ownership in franchisee signature print name percentage ownership in franchisee signature print name percentage ownership in franchisee signature print name percentage ownership in franchisee signature print name percentage ownership in franchisee signature print name percentage ownership in franchisee the undersigned as the spouse of the guarantor indicated below acknowledges and consents to the guaranty given herein by his her spouse. such consent also serves to bind the assets of the marital estate to guarantor performance of this guaranty. name of guarantor name of guarantor spouse signature of guarantor spouse guarantor spouse name of guarantor name of guarantor spouse signature of guarantor spouse name sign address name sign address name sign address name sign address name sign address name sign address name of guarantor name of guarantor spouse name of guarantor name of guarantor spouse signature of guarantor spouse signature of guarantor spouse exhibit to the franchise agreement rider to lease agreement this rider and the provisions hereof are hereby incorporated into the body of the lease to which this rider is attached the lease between tenant and landlord for the real property described therein the premises. the provisions hereof shall be cumulative of those set forth in the lease but to the extent of any conflict between any provisions of this rider and the provisions of the lease this rider shall govern and control. acknowledgement of franchise relationship. landlord acknowledges that tenant intends to operate an etf fitness studio a studio in the premises and that tenant rights to operate a studio and to use the etf fitness name trademarks and service marks the marks are solely pursuant to a franchise agreement franchise agreement between tenant and etf franchising llc franchisor. tenant operations at the premises are independently owned and operated. landlord acknowledges that tenant alone is responsible for all obligations under the lease unless and until franchisor or another franchisee expressly and in writing assumes such obligations and takes actual possession of the premises. landlord agrees not to take an action that would prohibit tenant from operating the studio as contemplated by the franchise agreement at the premises. consent to collateral assignment to franchisor. landlord hereby consents without payment of a fee and without the need for further landlord consent to i the collateral assignment of tenant interest in this lease to franchisor to secure tenant obligations to franchisor under the franchise agreement ii franchisor succeeding to tenant interest in the lease as a result of franchisor exercise of rights or remedies under such collateral assignment or as a result of franchisor termination of or exercise of rights or remedies granted in or under any other agreement between franchisor and tenant and or iii tenant franchisor and or any other franchisee of franchisor assignment of the lease to another franchisee of franchisor with whom franchisor has executed its then standard franchise agreement. landlord agrees that to the extent franchisor becomes tenant for howsoever brief a period upon assumption of lease pursuant to this provision that simultaneously with any subsequent assignment to another party franchisor shall be released from all liability under the lease or otherwise accruing after the date of such assignment provided that neither tenant nor any other franchisee shall be afforded such release in the event tenant such franchisee is the assignor unless otherwise agreed by landlord. tenant signage. landlord agrees to allow tenant to use franchisor standard interior and exterior signage and designs to the maximum extent permitted by local governmental authorities. tenant shall be provided at tenant sole cost and expense with a panel on any pylon monument directory sign for the development in which the premises is located and shall be permitted to install a standard sign thereon approved by franchisor including without limitation franchisor logo. landlord hereby grants and approves tenant the right to display the marks at the premises subject only to the provisions of applicable law. notice and cure rights to franchisor. prior to exercising any remedies hereunder except in the event of imminent danger to the premises landlord shall give franchisor written notice of any default by tenant and commencing on receipt thereof by franchisor franchisor shall have fifteen additional days to the established cure period as is given to tenant under the lease for such default to cure such defaults. landlord agrees to accept cure tendered by franchisor as if the same was tendered by tenant but franchisor has no obligation to cure such default. the initial address for notices to franchisor is as follows etf franchising llc highlands drive north-east suite pmb issaquah washington. non disturbance from mortgage lenders. it shall be a condition of the lease being subordinated to any mortgage deed of trust deed to secure debt or similar encumbrance on the premises that the holder of such encumbrance agree not to disturb tenant rights under this lease or tenant possession of the premises so long as tenant is not in default of its obligations under the lease and the franchise agreement beyond an applicable grace or cure period provided therein. fixtures and signage. any lien of landlord in tenant trade fixtures trade dress signage and other property at the premises is hereby subordinated to franchisor interest in such items as described in the franchise agreement. on request landlord shall grant the party who owns such property reasonable access to the premises for the sole purpose of removing such property provided such party repairs any damage caused by such removal and otherwise complies with landlord reasonable requirements with respect to such access. third party beneficiary. franchisor is a third partythird party beneficiary of the terms of this rider or any other terms of the lease applicable to franchisor rights under the lease and as a result thereof shall have all rights but not the obligation to enforce the same. franchisor right to enter. landlord acknowledges and agrees that franchisor or its designee may enter the premises for all purposes permitted under the terms of the franchise agreement including to inspect the premises and the studio operations to manage the tenant business on tenant behalf under certain circumstances to wit tenant failure to timely cure its default of the franchise agreement and while franchisor evaluates its right to purchase the location or to remove any trade fixtures or signage upon termination or expiration of the franchise agreement. if franchisor enters the premises for any such purposes it will do so without assuming any liability under the lease. amendments. tenant agrees that neither the lease nor this rider may be amended by the parties thereto without the prior written consent of franchisor. successors and assigns. all of franchisor rights privileges and interests under this rider and the lease shall inure to the benefit of franchisor successors and assigns. all provisions in this rider applicable to tenant and landlord shall be binding on any successor or assign of tenant or landlord under the lease. franchisor may assign its rights under this assignment to any designee. execution. this rider may be executed in counterparts each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement with etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. the lease. this rider and all other documents related to this rider may be executed by manual or electronic signature. agreed and executed and delivered under seal by the parties hereto as of the day and year of the lease. landlord by name title tenant by name title etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. exhibit to the franchise agreement assignment of contact information and online presences the undersigned franchisee hereby acknowledges and agrees that etf franchising llc franchisor has granted a franchise to franchisee to operate a franchised business located at the franchised business pursuant to a franchise agreement dated the franchise agreement and that in connection with the operation of that franchised business franchisor may have authorized franchisee to acquire and or maintained certain telephone and facsimile numbers and other directory listings each a contact information and or website domain name email address social media account user name other online presence or presence on any electronic medium of any kind each an online presence. assignment. in the event of termination or expiration of the franchise agreement franchisee hereby sells assigns transfers and conveys to franchisor all of its rights title and interest in and to all contact information and online presences pursuant to which franchisee operated its franchised business in any manner or which display connect to or are relating to the franchise system operated by franchisor or any tradenames trademarks or other proprietary materials or symbols of any kind of franchisor or its affiliates relating to such franchise system or the franchised business. upon termination or expiration of the franchise agreement franchisee shall immediately notify the telephone company listing agencies and any other third party owning or controlling any contact information and any internet service provider website hosting company domain registrar social network or other third party owning or controlling any online presence all such entities collectively registrars to assign the contact information and online presences as applicable to franchisor. this assignment is for collateral purposes only and except as specified herein franchisor shall have no liability or obligation of any kind whatsoever arising from or in connection with this assignment unless franchisor shall notify any applicable registrar to effectuate the assignment pursuant to the terms hereof and in such case franchisor liability will accrue exclusively from and after the date of such assignment. attorney in fact. franchisee irrevocably appoints franchisor as franchisee true and lawful attorney in fact which appointment is coupled with an interest to direct the registrar to assign all contact information and online presences to franchisor and execute such documents and take such actions as may be necessary to effectuate the assignment. if franchisee fails to promptly direct the registrars to assign the contact information and online presences to franchisor franchisor shall direct the registrars to effectuate the assignment contemplated hereunder to franchisor. the parties agree that the may accept franchisor written direction the franchise agreement or this assignment as conclusive proof of franchisor exclusive rights in and to the contact information and online presences as applicable upon such termination or expiration. the parties further agree that if the registrars require that the parties execute any assignment forms or other documentation at the time of termination or expiration of the franchise agreement franchisor execution of such forms or documentation on behalf of etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. franchisee shall effectuate franchisee consent and agreement to the assignment. further assurances. the parties agree that they will perform such acts and execute and deliver such documents as may be necessary to assist in or accomplish the assignment described herein upon termination or expiration of the franchise agreement. representation and warranties of franchisee. franchisee hereby represents warrants and covenants to franchisor as of the date hereof and as of the date of expiration or termination of the franchise agreement that a all of franchisee obligations and indebtedness related to its contact information and online presences have been paid and are current franchisee has full power and legal right to enter into execute deliver and perform this assignment this assignment is a legal and binding obligation of franchisee enforceable in accordance with the terms hereof the execution delivery and performance of this assignment does not conflict with violate breach or constitute a default under any contract agreement or instrument to which franchisee is a party or by which franchisee is bound and no consent of nor approval by any third party is required in connection herewith and franchisee has the specific power to assign and transfer its right title and interest in its telephone numbers telephone listings and telephone directory advertisements and franchisee has obtained all necessary consents to this assignment. miscellaneous. the validity construction and performance of this assignment shall be governed by the laws of the state of washington. all agreements covenants representations and warranties made herein shall survive the execution hereof. all rights of franchisor shall inure to its benefit and to the benefit of its successors and assigns. franchisor may assign its rights under this assignment to any designee. this assignment may be executed in counterparts each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement. this assignment may be executed by manual or electronic signature. either party may rely on the receipt of a document executed or delivered electronically. signature page to follow etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. in witness whereof each of the parties hereto has caused this assignment to be executed by its duly authorized representative as of the date indicated below. etf franchising llc a washington limited liability company by name title dated franchise owner if you are corporation limited liability company or partnership entity name signature name title dated franchise owner if you are an individual and not legal entity signature print name dated etf franchising llc fdd ex. franchise agreement. exhibit table of contents to operations manual etf franchising llc fdd ex. table of contents ops. manual. unit franchise operations manual table of contents subject pages approx. section introduction welcome letter from the founders history and philosophy of etf fitness llc. about etf fitness services of the etf franchisor responsibilities of a etf franchisee purpose and organization of the etf operations manual section establishing eat the frog business introduction selecting your business type your status as a franchisee selecting and developing your site required lease inclusions required insurance coverages required recommended bank accounts special licenses and permits contacting utilities and services recommended bookkeeping accounting services the eat the frog logo specifications sample logos signage specifications letterhead and business card specifications required equipment supplies and furnishings recommended initial inventory dcor specifications paying taxes paying additional fees section personnel introduction staffing your facility suggestions for recruitment process uniforms dress code etf franchising llc fdd ex. table of contents ops. manual. section general facility procedures introduction hours of operation facility maintenance and cleanliness safety pricing eat the frog services front counter vendors supplies section etf technology software introduction clubready software leadspeak software wexer software heart rate software netpulse application security system brivo section selling and marketing etf fitness services introduction target member demographics selling eat the frog memberships and services eat the frog advertising programs developing a local advertising program guidelines for using eat the frog marks obtaining approval for advertising concepts and material total pages etf franchising llc fdd ex. table of contents ops. manual. exhibit state addenda and agreement riders etf franchising llc fdd ex. state addenda and agreement riders. additional disclosures for the franchise disclosure document of etf franchising llc the following are additional disclosures for the franchise disclosure document of etf franchising llc required by various state franchise laws. each provision of these additional disclosures will only apply to you if the applicable state franchise registration and disclosure law applies to you. california. the california franchise investment law requires that copy of all proposed agreements relating to the sale of the franchise be delivered together with the disclosure document. section of the franchise investment law requires us to give you disclosure document approved by the commissioner of business oversight before we ask you to consider material modification of your franchise agreement. our website has not been reviewed or approved by the california department of business oversight. any complaints concerning the content of the website may be directed to the california department of business oversight at. the following is added at the end of item neither we our parent predecessor or affiliates nor any person in item of the disclosure document is subject to any currently effective order of any national securities association or national securities exchange as defined in the securities exchange act of. sections a et seq. suspending or expelling such persons from membership in that association or exchange. the following paragraphs are added at the end of item california business and professions code sections through provide rights to the franchisee concerning termination transfer or nonrenewal of a franchise. if the franchise agreement contains a provision that is inconsistent with the law and the law applies the law will control. the franchise agreement contains a covenant not to compete provisions that extends beyond termination of the franchise. this provision might not be enforceable under california law. the franchise agreement provides for termination upon bankruptcy. this provision might not be enforceable under federal bankruptcy law. sections et seq. etf franchising llc fdd ex. state addenda and agreement riders. the franchise agreement contains a liquidated damages clause. under california civil code section certain liquidated damages clauses are unenforceable. the franchise agreement requires binding arbitration. the arbitration will be conducted at a suitable location chosen by the arbitrator which is in or within miles of our then current place of business currently issaquah washington with the costs being borne as provided in the franchise agreement. prospective franchisees are encouraged to consult private legal counsel to determine the applicability of california and federal laws such as business and professions code section. code of civil procedure section and the federal arbitration act to any provision of the franchise agreement restricting venue to a forum outside the state of california. the franchise agreement requires the application of the laws of the state of washington. this provision may not be enforceable under california law. prospective franchisees are encouraged to consult private legal counsel to determine the applicability of california and federal laws such as business and professions code section. code of civil procedure section and the federal arbitration act to any provisions of the franchise agreement restricting venue to a forum outside the state of california. the franchise agreement requires you to sign general releases of claims upon renewal or transfer of the franchise agreement. california corporations code section provides that any condition stipulation or provision purporting to bind any person acquiring any franchise to waive compliance with any provision of that law or any rule or order thereunder is void. section might void a waiver of your rights under the franchise investment law california corporations code section. business and professions code section might void a waiver of your rights under the franchise relations act business and professions code sections. under the franchise agreement we reserve the right to require that franchisees comply with maximum and minimum prices we set for good and services. the antitrust law section of the office of the california attorney general views maximum price agreements as per south-east violations of the california cartwright act calendar bus. and professor code to. illinois. the following paragraph is added at the end of item pursuant to an order of the illinois attorney general office based on our financial condition we will deposit all initial fees and payments received from you due under the franchise agreement into an escrow account established with columbia bank. these funds will remain in escrow until we apply for their release. we will apply for release of these funds after we have fulfilled our initial obligations under the applicable franchise agreement and you have opened your studio. copy of the escrow agreement is on file with the illinois attorney general office. etf franchising llc fdd ex. state addenda and agreement riders. the summary section of item entitled choice of forum is deleted in its entirety. the following paragraph is added at the end of item. the summary section of item entitled choice of law is deleted and replaced with the following illinois law governs the franchise agreement. except for the. federal arbitration act and other federal laws in the. the laws of the state of illinois apply. in conformance with section of the illinois franchise disclosure act any provision in a franchise agreement that designates jurisdiction and venue in a forum outside of the state of illinois is void. however a franchise agreement may provide for arbitration to take place outside of illinois. your rights upon termination and non renewal are set forth in sections and of the illinois franchise disclosure act. in conformance with section of the illinois franchise disclosure act any condition stipulation or provision purporting to bind any person acquiring any franchise to waive compliance with the illinois franchise disclosure act or any other law of illinois is void. maryland. the following is added to the end of item based upon our financial condition the maryland securities commissioner has required a financial assurance. therefore all initial fees and payments owed by franchisees shall be deferred until we have completed our pre opening obligations under the franchise agreement. the following is added to the end of the summary sections of item entitled requirements for franchisee to renew or extend and item entitled conditions for franchisor approval of transfer any release required as a condition of renewal sale and or assignment transfer will not apply to claims or liability arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. the following is added to the end of the summary section of item entitled cause defined non curable defaults the franchise agreement provides for termination upon bankruptcy. this provision might not be enforceable under federal bankruptcy law. sections et seq. but we will enforce it to the extent enforceable. etf franchising llc fdd ex. state addenda and agreement riders. the following sentence is added to the end of the summary section of item entitled choice of forum you may bring suit in maryland for claims arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. the following language is added to the end of the chart in item you must bring any claims arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law within years after the grant of the franchise. minnesota. the following sentence is added to the end of the chart in item the maximum amount we may collect if you have insufficient funds in your account island trademarks. the following sentence is added to the end of item provided you have complied with all provisions of the franchise agreement applicable to the marks we will protect your rights to use the marks and we also will indemnify you from any loss costs or expenses from any claims suits or demands regarding your use of the marks in accordance with minn. statistical second circa subd. renewal termination transfer and dispute resolution. the following is added at the end of the chart in item with respect to franchises governed by minnesota law we will comply with minn. statistical second circa subds. and which require except in certain specified cases that you be given days notice of termination with days to cure of the franchise agreement and days notice for non renewal of the franchise agreement. minn. statistical second circa and minn. rule. might prohibit us from requiring litigation to be conducted outside minnesota requiring waiver of a jury trial or requiring you to consent to liquidated damages termination penalties or judgment notes. in addition nothing in the franchise disclosure document or franchise agreement can abrogate or reduce any of franchiseesyour rights as provided for in minnesota statutes chapter county or your rights to any procedure forum or remedies provided for by the laws of the jurisdiction. those provisions also provide that no condition stipulation or provision in the franchise agreement will in any way abrogate or reduce any of your rights under the minnesota franchises law including if applicable the right to submit matters to the jurisdiction of the courts of minnesota. etf franchising llc fdd ex. state addenda and agreement riders. any release required as a condition of renewal sale and or transfer assignment will not apply to the extent prohibited by applicable law with respect to claims arising under minn. rule. d new york. the following information is added to the cover page of the franchise disclosure document information comparing franchisors is available. call the state administrators listed in exhibit or your public library for sources of information. registration of this franchise by new york state does not mean that new york state recommends it or has verified the information in this franchise disclosure document. if you learn that anything in the franchise disclosure document is untrue contact the federal trade commission and new york state department of law bureau of investor protection and securities broadway road liberty street street floor new york new york. the franchisor may if it chooses negotiate with you about items covered in the franchise disclosure document. however the franchisor cannot use the negotiating process to prevail upon prospective area developer or franchisee to accept terms which are less favorable than those set forth in this franchise disclosure document. the following is added at the end of item except as provided above with regard to the franchisor its predecessor a person identified in item or an affiliate offering franchises under the franchisor principal trademark. no such party has an administrative criminal or civil action pending against that person alleging a felony a violation of a franchise antitrust or securities law fraud embezzlement fraudulent conversion misappropriation of property unfair or deceptive practices or comparable civil or misdemeanor allegations. no such party has pending actions other than routine litigation incidental to the business which are significant in the context of the number of franchisees and the size nature or financial condition of the franchise system or its business operations. etf franchising llc fdd ex. state addenda and agreement riders. no such party has been convicted of a felony or pleaded nolo contendere to a felony charge or within the year period immediately preceding the application for registration has been convicted of or pleaded nolo contendere to a misdemeanor charge or has been the subject of a civil action alleging violation of a franchise antifraud or securities law fraud embezzlement fraudulent conversion or misappropriation of property or unfair or deceptive practices or comparable allegations. no such party is subject to a currently effective injunctive or restrictive order or decree relating to the franchise or under a federal state or canadian franchise securities antitrust trade regulation or trade practice law resulting from a concluded or pending action or proceeding brought by a public agency or is subject to any currently effective order of any national securities association or national securities exchange as defined in the securities and exchange act of suspending or expelling such person from membership in such association or exchange or is subject to a currently effective injunctive or restrictive order relating to any other business activity as a result of an action brought by a public agency or department including without limitation actions affecting a license as a real estate broker or sales agent. the following is added to the end of item none of the franchisor itsus our affiliate itsour predecessor officers or general partner during the year period immediately before the date of the offering circular a filed as debtor or had filed against it a petition to start an action under the. bankruptcy code obtained a discharge of its debts under the bankruptcy code or was a principal officer of a company or a general partner in a partnership that either filed as a debtor or had filed against it a petition to start an action under the. bankruptcy code or that obtained a discharge of its debts under the. bankruptcy code during or within year after that officer or general partner of the franchisor held this position in the company or partnership. the following is added to the end of item the initial franchise fee and development fee constitutes part of our general operating funds and will be used as such in our discretion. the following is added to the end of the summary sections of item entitled requirements for franchisee to renew or extend and item entitled conditions for franchisor approval of transfer however to the extent required by applicable law all rights you enjoy and any causes of action arising in your favor from the provisions of article of the general business law of the state of new york and the regulations issued thereunder shall remain in force it being the intent of this proviso that the non waiver provisions of general business law sections. and. be satisfied. etf franchising llc fdd ex. state addenda and agreement riders. the following language replaces the summary section of item entitled termination by franchisee you may terminate the agreement on any grounds available by law. the following is added to the end of the summary section of item entitled assignment of contract by franchisor however to the extent required by applicable law no assignment will be made except to an assignee who in our good faith and judgment of the franchisor is willing and financially able to assume the franchisorsour obligations under the franchise agreement. the following is added to the end of the summary sections of item entitled choice of forum and item entitled choice of law the foregoing choice of law should not be considered a waiver of any right conferred upon the franchisor or upon the franchisee by article of the general business law of the state of new york. rhode island. the following language is added to the end of the summary sections of item entitled choice of forum and entitled choice of law section. of the rhode island franchise investment act provides that provision in a franchise agreement restricting jurisdiction or venue to a forum outside this state or requiring the application of the laws of another state is void with respect to a claim otherwise enforceable under this act. virginia. the following language is added to the end of the summary section of item entitled termination by franchisor without cause pursuant to section. of the virginia retail franchising act it is unlawful for a franchisor to cancel a franchise without reasonable cause. if any grounds for default or termination stated in the franchise agreement does not constitute reasonable cause as that term may be defined in the virginia retail franchising act or the laws of virginia that provision may not be enforceable. washington. the following paragraph is added at the end of items and pursuant to an order of the director of the department of financial institutions the dfi we will deposit all initial fees and payments received from you due under the franchise agreement into an impound trust account with columbia bank. these etf franchising llc fdd ex. state addenda and agreement riders. funds will remain impounded until we apply for their release with the dfi. we will apply for release of these funds after we have fulfilled our initial obligations under the applicable franchise agreement and you have opened the applicable studio. the following paragraph is added at the end of item if any of the provisions in this franchise disclosure document or the franchise agreement are inconsistent with the relationship provisions of the revised code of washington section. or any other requirements of the washington franchise investment protection act the act the provisions of the act will prevail over the inconsistent terms of the franchise disclosure document or franchise agreement. the securities division of the state of washington department of financial institutions requires the following language the state of washington has a statute rcw. the act which might supersede your franchise agreement in your relationship with us including in the areas of termination and renewal of your franchise. there might also be court decisions which supersede your franchise agreement in your relationship with us including termination and renewal of your franchise. in any arbitration involving a franchise purchased in the state of washington the arbitration site shall be in the state of washington or in a place mutually agreed upon at the time of the arbitration or as determined by the arbitrator. in the event of a conflict of laws the provisions of the act will prevail. release or waiver of rights executed by you shall not include rights under the act except when executed pursuant to a negotiated settlement after the franchise agreement is in effect and where the parties are represented by independent counsel. provisions such as those which unreasonably restrict or limit the statute of limitations period for claims under the act or rights or remedies under the act such as a right to a jury trial might not be enforceable. transfer fees are collectable to the extent that they reflect our reasonable estimate or actual costs in effecting a transfer etf franchising llc fdd ex. state addenda and agreement riders. the following pages in this exhibit are state specific riders to the franchise agreement etf franchising llc fdd ex. state addenda and agreement riders. rider to the franchise agreement for use in illinois this rider is made and entered into by and between etf franchising llc a washington limited liability company whose address is highlands drive north-east suite pmb issaquah washington we and a whose principal business address is you. background. we and you are parties to that certain franchise agreement dated the franchise agreement. this rider is annexed to and forms part of the franchise agreement. this rider is being signed because a any of the offering or sales activity relating to the franchise agreement occurred inyou are domiciled in the state of illinois or the offer of the franchise is made or accepted in the state of illinois and the studio that you will operatedevelop under theyour franchise agreement will be located in illinois and or you are domiciled inis or will be operated in the state of illinois. initial franchise fees. the following paragraph is added at the end of section a initial franchise fees aof the franchise agreement pursuant to an order of the illinois attorney general office we will deposit all initial fees and payments received from you due under this agreement into an escrow account established with columbia bank. these funds will remain in escrow until we apply for their release. we will apply for release of these funds after we have fulfilled our initial obligations under this agreement and you have opened your studio. copy of the escrow agreement is on file with the illinois attorney general office. governing law. section folio of the franchise agreement is deleted and replaced with the following except to the extent governed by the united states trademark act of lanham act. sections et seq. or other united states federal law this agreement the franchise and all claims arising from the relationship between us and you will be governed by the laws of the state of illinois without regard to its conflict of laws rules. consent to jurisdiction. section. of the franchise agreement is deleted in its entirety. waiver of punitive damages and jury trial and limitations of claims and class action bar. the following language is added to the end of sections. and.jk of the franchise agreement however this section shall not act as a condition stipulation or provision purporting to bind any person acquiring to waive compliance with any provision of the illinois franchise disclosure act or any other law of the state of illinois to the extent applicable. etf franchising llc fdd ex. state addenda and agreement riders. illinois franchise disclosure act. the following language is added as section. ofto the franchise agreement. illinois franchise disclosure act. section of the illinois franchise disclosure act states that any condition stipulation or provision purporting to bind any person acquiring any franchise to waive compliance with any provision of the act or any other law of illinois is void. signature page to follow etf franchising llc fdd ex. state addenda and agreement riders. in witness whereof the parties have executed and delivered this rider on the dates noted below to be effective as of the effective date of the franchise agreement. etf franchising llc a washington limited liability company by name title date dated this is the effective date franchise owner you are corporation limited liability company or partnership name by entity name signature name title date dated franchise owner if you are an individual and not legal entity signature print name dated etf franchising llc fdd ex. state addenda and agreement riders. rider to the franchise agreement for use in maryland this rider is made and entered into by and between etf franchising llc a washington limited liability company whose address is highlands drive north-east suite pmb issaquah washington we and a whose principal business address is you. background. we and you are parties to that certain franchise agreement dated the franchise agreement. this rider is annexed to and forms part of the franchise agreement. this rider is being signed because a you are domiciled ina resident of the state of maryland and or the studio that you will operatedevelop under theyour franchise agreement will be located inis or will be operated in the state of maryland or the offer to sell is made in the state of maryland or the offer to buy is accepted in the state of maryland. initial franchise fees. the following language is added to the end of section a of the franchise agreement all initial fees and payments owed by you shall be deferred until we have completed our pre opening obligations under this agreement. releases. the following language is added to the end of sections. east and. ee of the franchise agreement however any release required as a condition of renewal sale and or assignment transfer will not apply to any claims or liability arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. insolvency. the following sentence is added to the end of section b termination by us of the franchise agreement this ssection b may not be enforceable under federal bankruptcy law. sections et seq. consent to jurisdiction. the following sentence is added to the end of section g consent to jurisdiction of the franchise agreement you may bring a lawsuit in maryland for claims arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. limitations on claims and class action bar. the following sentence is added to the end of section j limitations on claims and class action bar of the franchise agreement etf franchising llc fdd ex. state addenda and agreement riders. you must bring any claims arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law within years after we grant you a the franchise. acknowledgmentsreleases. the following is added to the end of the franchise agreement as new section. acknowledgments. acknowledgments. all representations requiring you to assent to a release estoppel or waiver of liability are not intended to nor shall they act as a release estoppel or waiver of any liability under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. signature page to follow etf franchising llc fdd ex. state addenda and agreement riders. in witness whereof the parties have executed and delivered this rider on the dates noted below to be effective as of the effective date of the franchise agreement. etf franchising llc a washington limited liability company by name title date dated this is the effective date franchise owner you are corporation limited liability company or partnership name by entity name signature name title date dated franchise owner if you are an individual and not legal entity signature print name dated etf franchising llc fdd ex. state addenda and agreement riders. rider to the franchise agreement for use in minnesota this rider is made and entered into by and between etf franchising llc a washington limited liability company whose address is highlands drive north-east suite pmb issaquah washington we and a whose principal business address is you. background. we and you are parties to that certain franchise agreement dated the franchise agreement. this rider is annexed to and forms part of the franchise agreement. this rider is being signed because a the studio that you will operatedevelop under the franchise agreement will be located inoperated wholly or partly in the state of minnesota and or any of the offering or sales activity relating to the franchise agreement occurred inyou either a resident of domiciled it or actually present in the state of minnesota. notification of infringement and claims. the following sentence is added to the end of section circa of the franchise agreement provided you have complied with all provisions of this agreement applicable to the marks we will protect your right to use the marks and will indemnify you from any loss costs or expenses arising out of any claims suits or demands regarding your use of the marks in accordance with minn. statistical second county subd. renewal and termination. the following sentence is added to the end of sections a and b of the franchise agreement however with respect to franchises governed by minnesota law we will comply with minn. statistical second circa subds. and which require except in certain specified cases that you be given days notice of termination with days to cure and days notice of non renewal of this agreement. releases. the following language is added to the end of sections. east and. ee of the franchise agreement any release required as a condition of renewal sale and or assignment transfer will not apply to the extent prohibited by the minnesota franchises law. lost revenue damages. the following language is added to the end of section a of the franchise agreement we and you acknowledge that certain parts of this provision might not be enforceable under minn. rule part. j however we and you agree to enforce the provision to the extent the law allows. etf franchising llc fdd ex. state addenda and agreement riders. governing law. the following statement is added at the end of section fahrenheit of the franchise agreement nothing in this agreement will abrogate or reduce any of your rights under minnesota statutes chapter county or your right to any procedure forum or remedies that the laws of the jurisdiction provide. consent to jurisdiction. the following language is added to the end of section g of the franchise agreement notwithstanding the foregoing minn. statistical second circa and minn. rule. prohibit us except in certain specified cases from requiring litigation to be conducted outside of minnesota. nothing in this agreement will abrogate or reduce any of your rights under minnesota statutes chapter county or your rights to any procedure forum or remedies that the laws of the jurisdiction provide. waiver of punitive damages and jury trial. if and then only to the extent required by the minnesota franchises law section h of the franchise agreement is deleted. injunctive relief. the following language is added to the end of section i of the franchise agreement notwithstanding the foregoing a court will determine if a bond is required. limitations on claims and class action bar. the following is added to the end of section j of the franchise agreement provided however that minnesota law provides that no action may be commenced under minn. statistical second circa more than years after the cause of action accrues. waiver of punitive damages and jury trial. if and then only to the extent required by the minnesota franchises law section h of the franchise agreement is deleted. signature page to follow etf franchising llc fdd ex. state addenda and agreement riders. in witness whereof the parties have executed and delivered this rider on the dates noted below to be effective as of the effective date of the franchise agreement. etf franchising llc a washington limited liability company by name title date dated this is the effective date franchise owner you are corporation limited liability company or partnership name by entity name signature name title date dated franchise owner if you are an individual and not legal entity signature print name dated etf franchising llc fdd ex. state addenda and agreement riders. rider to the franchise agreement for use in thestate of new york this rider is made and entered into by and between etf franchising llc a delaware limited liability company whose address it highlands drive north-east suite pmb issaquah washington we and a whose principal business address is you. background. we and you are parties to that certain franchise agreement dated the franchise agreement. this rider is annexed to and forms part of the franchise agreement. this rider is being signed because a an offer to sell is made in the state of new york or an offer to buy is accepted in the state of new york or if you are domiciled in the state of new york and the studio that you will operatedevelop under theyour franchise agreement will be located in new york and or any of the offering or sales activity relating to the franchise agreement occurred inis or will be operated in the state of new york. transfer by us. the following language is added to the end of section. of the franchise agreement however to the extent required by applicable law no transfer will be made except to an assignee who in our good faith judgment is willing and able to assume our obligations under this agreement. releases. the following language is added to the end of sections. east and. ee of the franchise agreement notwithstanding the foregoing all rights enjoyed by you and any causes of action arising in your favor from the provisions of article of the general business law of the state of new york and the regulations issued thereunder shall remain in force to the extent required by the non waiver provisions of gbl sections. and. as amended. termination of agreement by you. the following language is added to the end of section. of the franchise agreement you also may terminate this agreement on any grounds available by law under the provisions of article of the general business law of the state of new york. governing law consent to jurisdiction. the following statement is added at the end of sections. and. of the franchise agreement this section shall not be considered a waiver of any right conferred upon you by the provisions of article of the new york state general business law as amended and the regulations issued thereunder. etf franchising llc fdd ex. state addenda and agreement riders. signature page to follow etf franchising llc fdd ex. state addenda and agreement riders. in witness whereof the parties have executed and delivered this rider on the dates noted below to be effective as of the effective date of the franchise agreement. etf franchising llc a washington limited liability company by name title date dated this is the effective date franchise owner you are corporation limited liability company or partnership name by entity name signature name title date dated franchise owner if you are an individual and not legal entity signature print name dated etf franchising llc fdd ex. state addenda and agreement riders. rider to the franchise agreement for use in rhode island this rider is made and entered into by and between etf franchising llc a delaware limited liability company whose address it highlands drive north-east suite pmb issaquah washington we and a whose principal business address is you. background. we and you are parties to that certain franchise agreement dated the franchise agreement. this rider is annexed to and forms part of the franchise agreement. this rider is being signed because a you are domiciled inan offer to sell is made or accepted in the state of rhode island or an offer to buy is accepted in the state of rhode island or you are a resident of the state of rhode island and the studio that you will operatedevelop under theyour franchise agreement will be located in rhode island and or any of the offering or sales activity relating to the franchise agreement occurred inis or will be operated in the state of rhode island. governing law consent to jurisdiction. the following language is added to the end of sections fahrenheit and g of the franchise agreement section. of the rhode island franchise investment act provides that a provision in a franchise agreement restricting jurisdiction or venue to a forum outside this state or requiring the application of the laws of another state is void with respect to a claim otherwise enforceable under this act. to the extent required by applicable law rhode island law will apply to claims arising under the rhode island franchise investment act. signature page to follow etf franchising llc fdd ex. state addenda and agreement riders. in witness whereof the parties have executed and delivered this rider on the dates noted below to be effective as of the effective date of the franchise agreement. etf franchising llc a washington limited liability company by name title date dated this is the effective date franchise owner you are corporation limited liability company or partnership name by entity name signature name title date dated franchise owner if you are an individual and not legal entity signature print name dated etf franchising llc fdd ex. state addenda and agreement riders. rider to the franchise agreement for use in washington this rider is made and entered into by and between etf franchising llc a washington limited liability company whose address is highlands drive north-east suite pmb issaquah washington we and a whose principal business address is you. background. we and you are parties to that certain franchise agreement dated the franchise agreement. this rider is annexed to and forms part of the franchise agreement. this rider is being signed because a you are domiciled inthe offer is directed into the state of washington and or is received where it is directed or you are a resident of the state of washington or the studio that you will operatedevelop under theyour franchise agreement is or will be located or operated in washington and or any of the offering or sales activity relating to the franchise agreement occurred in wholly or partly in the state of washington. initial franchise fees. the following paragraph is added at the end of section a initial franchise fees of the franchise agreement pursuant to an order of the director of the department of financial institutions the dfi we will deposit all initial fees and payments received from you due under the franchisethis agreement into an impound trust account with columbia bank. these funds will remain impounded until we apply for their release with the dfi. we will apply for release of these funds after we have fulfilled our initial obligations under the franchisethis agreement and you have opened your studio. washington law. the following paragraphs are added to the end of the franchise agreement in recognition of the requirements of the washington franchise investment protection act rcw. the act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder the franchise agreement shall be modified as follows the state of washington has a statute rcw. whichact might supersede this agreement in your relationship with us including the areas of termination and renewal of your franchise. there might also be court decisions which supersede this agreement in your relationship with us including termination and renewal of your franchise. in the event of a conflict of laws the provisions of the act chapter. rcw shall will prevail. release or waiver of rights executed by you shall not include rights under the act except when executed pursuant to a negotiated settlement after the franchisethis agreement is in effect and where the parties are represented by independent counsel. provisions such as those which unreasonably restrict or limit the statute of limitations etf franchising llc fdd ex. state addenda and agreement riders. period for claims under the act or rights or remedies under the act such as a right to a jury trial might not be enforceable. transfer fees are collectable to the extent that they reflect our reasonable estimate or actual costs in effecting a transfer. in any arbitration involving a franchise purchased in washington the arbitration site shall be either in the state of washington or in a place mutually agreed upon at the time of the arbitration or as determined by the arbitrator. signature page to follow etf franchising llc fdd ex. state addenda and agreement riders. in witness whereof the parties have executed and delivered this rider on the dates noted below to be effective as of the effective date of the franchise agreement. etf franchising llc a washington limited liability company by name title date dated this is the effective date franchise owner you are corporation limited liability company or partnership name by entity name signature name title date dated franchise owner if you are an individual and not legal entity signature print name dated etf franchising llc fdd ex. state addenda and agreement riders. exhibit financial statements etf franchising llc fdd ex. financial statements. etf franchising llc financial statements december and etf franchising llc financial statements december and table of contents page independent auditors report financial statements balance sheets statements of income statements of changes in members equity statements of cash flows notes to the financial statements independent auditors report to the board of directors and members etf franchising llc issaquah washington we have audited the accompanying financial statements of etf franchising llc a limited liability company which comprise the balance sheets as of december and and the related statements of income changes in members equity and cash flows for the years then ended and the related notes to the financial statements. management responsibility for the financial statements management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america this includes the design implementation and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement whether due to fraud or error. auditors responsibility our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. we conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the united states of america. those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. an audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. the procedures selected depend on the auditor judgment including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements whether due to fraud or error. in making those risk assessments the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity internal control. accordingly we express no such opinion. an audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by management as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. we believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. opinion in our opinion the financial statements referred to above present fairly in all material respects the financial position of etf franchising llc as of december and and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the years then ended in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. april kirkland washington etf franchising llc balance sheets december and see accompanying notes and independent auditors report. current assets cash and cash equivalents accounts receivable prepaid commissions and other expenses lease deposits total current assets property and equipment equipment furniture and fixtures at cost less accumulated depreciation total property and equipment net other assets software at cost less accumulated amortization total other assets net total assets assets etf franchising llc balance sheets december and see accompanying notes and independent auditors report. current liabilities accounts payable accrued expenses business and payroll taxes payable deferred revenue total current liabilities total liabilities members equity total liabilities and members equity liabilities and members equity etf franchising llc statements of income years ended december and see accompanying notes and independent auditors report. revenues franchise income area representative fees franchise fees technology fees marketing fees management fees total revenues operating expenses amortization advertising bank service charges commissions depreciation dues and subscriptions employee benefits insurance internet and web hosting legal and professional services license fees management fee marketing and promotional expense miscellaneous office expense payroll service payroll taxes postage and delivery rent salaries and wages supplies taxes business telephone training videos travel meals and entertainment total expenses net operating income other income interest income net income etf franchising llc statements of changes in members equity years ended december and see accompanying notes and independent auditors report. members equity beginning of year net income distributions members equity end of year etf franchising llc statements of cash flows years ended december and see accompanying notes and independent auditors report. cash flows from operating activities net income adjustments to reconcile net income loss to net cash provided used by operating activities amortization depreciation increase decrease in accounts receivable prepaid commissions and other expenses lease deposits increase decrease in accounts payable accrued expenses business and payroll taxes payable deferred revenue net cash provided used by operating activities cash flows from investing activities equipment purchases net cash provided used by investing activities cash flows from financing activities member contribution receivable distributions to members net cash provided used by financing activities net increase in cash and cash equivalents cash beginning of year cash end of year etf franchising llc notes to financial statements december and note nature of operations and significant accounting policies nature of operations etf franchising llc etf or the company is a limited liability company that was formed indiana the company headquarters are located in issaquah washington. etf provides franchise operations in the health and fitness industry. etf has completed a detailed franchising development program in which franchisees will own and operate fitness workout studios under the eat the frog fitness trade name. the program includes marketing and sales processes combined with tools for recruitment and training of employees. etf fitness llc etf fitness which owns of etf provides trademark licenses that etf provides to franchisees. etf fitness also owns the rights to the frogx training fitness program and licenses the fitness program to etf for use in franchised studios. franchise operations etf grants representatives the rights to promote franchise sales in certain agreed upon territories as defined in the area representative agreements ara. the ara outlines the number of franchises to either be sold or operated by the representative the areas in which the representatives may sell the franchises and determines the timeline of opening fitness studios. an initial area representative fee is charged to representatives for each right granted. franchise agreements generally have a year term. the first franchised studio opened in april in arizona. etf fitness has licensed to an affiliate tcf franchising incorporated the frogx training fitness program for use in its franchised fitness centers located in washington. ten aras were signed in as well as three franchise agreements. the aras sold provide for sales of franchises located in states throughout the country. basis of accounting the financial statements of the company are prepared on the accrual basis of accounting using accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. cash and cash equivalents for purposes of the statement of cash flows the company considers all highly liquid investments purchased with a maturity of three months or less at acquisition as cash and cash equivalents. there were no cash equivalents held by the company at december and. the company maintains cash and highly liquid debt instruments in financial institutions with balances in excess of federally insured limits. the company believes that the risk associated with the balances in excess of federally insured limits is negligible. accounts receivable and allowance for doubtful accounts the company grants credit to substantially all of its franchisees and representatives. terms are stated in the individual agreements but generally provide for payment of fees on presentation. interest on outstanding balances is charged at. per month. accounts receivables are stated in the balance sheets at the amount management expects to collect from customers. based on management assessment and current relationships with customers having outstanding balances it has concluded that realization losses on balances outstanding at year end will be immaterial. therefore there was no allowance for doubtful accounts at december and. accounts receivable outstanding in excess of days at december are. etf franchising llc notes to financial statements december and equipment furniture and fixtures equipment furniture and fixtures are recorded at cost net of accumulated depreciation. depreciation is charged to operations over the estimated service lives of the assets using the straight line method. the useful lives for equipment furniture and fixtures range from to years. depreciation expense was and for the years ended december and respectively. maintenance repairs and costs incurred for the purchase of assets that are below the company capitalization threshold are charged to expense as incurred. software costs software is stated at cost and amortized over an expected useful life of years using the straight line method. revenue recognition initial area representative fees are recorded as revenue when the ara is signed because there are no additional obligations to be performed by the company. revenues from the sales of individual franchises are recognized when substantially all significant services to be performed by the company have been performed including site selection approval training and opening assistance. etf may elect to terminate the franchise agreement in the event a franchisee fails to open its studio for full use by customers within the earlier of days of receiving site and lease approval or days of signing the franchise agreement. franchise fees are generally not refundable. if the franchisee fails to open its studio within the time stipulated in the agreement the company will recognize the associated nonrefundable franchise fee revenue. revenues from franchisees for which the company has yet to complete performance of its services are deferred. royalty fees technology fees marketing fund and local advertising contributions are periodic fees charged to franchisees and area representatives based on a contractually specified provisions and are recognized in the period to which they relate. commissions the company pays commissions to third party marketing companies based on revenues generated associated with obtaining area representatives. the company also pays commissions to area representatives based on sales of franchises within their specified area. commissions associated with income that has been deferred is capitalized as a prepaid expense until the related income is recognized. advertising advertising costs are included in operating expenses and are expensed as incurred. income taxes the company has elected to file its income tax return as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. therefore no provision for income tax has been recorded in the financial statements. the company utilizes the cash method for reporting income on its federal income tax returns. income from the partnership is taxed to the members in their individual returns on their share of the company earnings. the company net income or loss is allocated among the members in accordance with the operating agreement of the company. etf franchising llc notes to financial statements december and the company evaluates all significant tax positions as required by generally accepted accounting principles. under this guidance tax positions that represent an uncertain position as defined by applicable standards need to be recognized in the financial statements. for the years ending december and the company had no uncertain tax positions that require either recognition or disclosure in the financial statements. based on the date the company was formed all tax filings are subject to examination by the internal revenue service. fair value measurements the carrying value of cash trade receivables accounts payable and other current liabilities approximates fair value due to the short terms to maturity for these instruments. no financial instruments are held for trading purposes. the company is exempt from the requirement to measure its financial assets and liabilities at fair value because the company in nonpublic has assets less than million and has no derivatives. commitments and contingencies the company may at times be subject to various claims and legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. when management believes that a liability is probable and can be reasonably estimated a liability will be accrued. at december management is unaware of any matters which it believes warrant recognition and or disclosure in the financial statements. concentrations for the year ending december the company recognized from the sale of seven aras and related fees. for the year ending december the company recognized from the sale of four aras and related fees. accounts receivable from two franchisees totaled at december. accounts receivable from two aras totaled at december. use of estimates the preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and changes therein and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. accordingly actual results could differ from those estimates. subsequent events management has evaluated subsequent events through april the date the financial statements were available to be issued for possible disclosure and recognition in the financial statements. note related party transactions the company enters into significant transactions with related parties. it is possible that the terms of such transactions would not be the same with these related parties as would result from transactions among unrelated parties. etf franchising llc notes to financial statements december and etf fitness owns of etf and provides management services trademark licenses and the rights to the frogx fitness training program to the company. management fees of were paid to etf fitness for the year ended december. the fees are included in operating expenses in the statements of income. owners of the company have entered into a joint venture agreement to develop two fitness studios in arizona. the company granted to the joint venture the franchise rights associated with those projects. in the company sold aras to etf arizona llc which owns part of the company. fees recognized in totaled and was receivable as of december. etf provided management services to another related party eft fitness canada operations incorporated and received in management fee income for the year ended december. note operating leases etf has signed an operating lease for office space effective from february through march. the minimum monthly rental for that period is plus a proportionate share of the building taxes and operating costs. etf signed a second operating lease for office space in anacortes washington effective from july through december for which the monthly rental island the future minimum annual rental commitment under the operating lease is during the year ended. note subsequent events etf has signed five new franchise agreements indiana on march the company engaged in an internal restructuring with some of its affiliates. as a result the company became majority owned by a newly formed affiliated entity named etf global llc. as part of that reorganization etf global llc acquired the rights to the franchise system intellectual property and entered into a license agreement to grant the company the right to use and sublicense the use of that intellectual property to franchisees. after the reorganization etf global llc also owns two newly formed entities etf management llc and etf marketing llc which will offer the company management and marketing services respectively. effective in the company is changing the primary title of area representative to regional developer. nothing in the role has changed. the company intends to incorporate the transition within its franchise disclosure document. no adjustments to the amounts reported in the or financial statements as a result of the aforementioned changes. etf franchising llc financial statements december and etf franchising llc financial statements table of contents page independent auditors report financial statements balance sheets statements of income statements of members equity statements of cash flows notes to the financial statements independent auditors report to the board of directors and partners etf franchising llc issaquah washington we have audited the accompanying financial statements of etf franchising llc a limited liability company which comprise the balance sheets as of december and and the related statements of income members equity and cash flows for the years then ended and the related notes to the financial statements. management responsibility for the financial statements management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america this includes the design implementation and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement whether due to fraud or error. auditors responsibility our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. we conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the united states of america. those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. an audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. the procedures selected depend on the auditor judgment including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements whether due to fraud or error. in making those risk assessments the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity internal control. accordingly we express no such opinion. an audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by management as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. we believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. opinion in our opinion the financial statements referred to above present fairly in all material respects the financial position of etf franchising llc as of december and and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the years then ended in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. march kirkland washington current assets cash and cash equivalents accounts receivable receivable from llc member total current assets property and equipment equipment at cost less accumulated depreciation total property and equipment other assets software development at cost less accumulated amortization total other assets total assets december and balance sheets etf franchising llc assets see accompanying notes and independent auditors report december and balance sheets etf franchising llc current liabilities accounts payable business and payroll taxes payable total current liabilities total liabilities members equity total liabilities and members equity liabilities and members equity see accompanying notes and independent auditors report revenues franchise income area representative fee franchise fee marketing fee operating expenses amortization advertising bank service charges commissions depreciation dues and subscriptions insurance internet and web hosting legal and professional services license fees marketing and promotional expense office expense payroll service payroll taxes rent salaries and wages start up costs subcontractors supplies taxes business telephone training training videos travel meals and entertainment utilities total expenses net operating income loss other income and expense interest income net other income net income loss for the years ended december and etf franchising llc statements of income see accompanying notes and independent auditors report members equity beginning of year members contributions net income loss distributions members equity end of year for the years ended december and etf franchising llc statements of changes in members equity see accompanying notes and independent auditors report cash flows from operating activities net income loss adjustments to reconcile net income loss to net cash provided used by operating activities amortization depreciation increase decrease in accounts receivable decrease increase in accounts payable business and payroll taxes payable net cash provided used by operating activities cash flows from investing activities equipment software development net cash used by investing activities cash flows from financing activities members contributions member contribution receivable members distributions net cash provided by financing activities net increase in cash and cash equivalents cash beginning of year cash end of year for the years ended december and etf franchising llc statements of cash flows see accompanying notes and independent auditors report etf franchising llc notes to financial statements december and note nature of operations and summary of significant accounting policies nature of operations etf franchising llc etf is organized as a limited liability company in the state of washington. etf provides franchise operations in the health and fitness industry in multiple states. etf has completed a detailed franchising development program in which franchisees will own and operate fitness workout studios under the eat the frog fitness name. the program includes marketing and sales processes combined with tools for recruitment and training of employees. etf fitness llc etf fitness which owns of etf provides trademark licenses that etf provides to franchisees. etf fitness also owns the rights to the frogx training fitness program and licenses the fitness program to etf for use in franchised studios. basis of accounting the accompanying financial statements have been prepared on the accrual basis of accounting in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. estimates the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of the related assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. in these financial statements assets liabilities and earnings involve reliance on management estimates. actual results could differ from those estimates. cash and cash equivalents for purposes of reporting cash flows cash includes amounts on hand and amounts on deposit at financial institutions. accounts receivables accounts receivables are stated in the balance sheets at the amount management expects to collect from customers. based on management assessment and current relationships with customers having outstanding balances it has concluded that realization losses on balances outstanding at year end will be immaterial. therefore there was no allowance for doubtful accounts at december and. major customers for the year ending december etf recorded a substantial portion of its revenue from six major customers. revenue from these customers was. accounts receivable from these customers was at december. porperty and equipment property and equipment are recorded at cost. depreciation is provided using the straight line method over the estimated useful life of the asset. maintenance and repairs costs are charged to expense as incurred. software development the cost of software development is stated at cost and amortized over an expected useful life of years using the straight line method. start up costs in accordance with the provisions of financial accounting standards board accounting standards codification fasb asc start up costs were expensed as incurred. continued on page etf franchising llc notes to financial statements december and note nature of operations and summary of significant accounting policies continued franchise operations etf grants representatives the rights to promote franchise sales in certain agreed upon territories as defined in the area representative agreements ara. the ara outlines the number of franchises to either be sold or operated by the representative and determines the timeline of opening fitness studios. an initial area representative fee is charged to representatives for each right granted. the first franchised studio opened in april in arizona. etf fitness has licensed to an affiliate tcf franchising incorporated the frogx training fitness program for use in its franchised fitness centers located in washington. three additional fitness studios are scheduled to open indiana four area representative agreements were signed in as well as one franchise agreement. revenue recognition initial area representative fees are recorded as revenue when the ara is signed. franchise fees are charged to new franchisees in accordance with the franchise agreements and are recognized as revenue upon signing the agreement and are generally not refundable. etf may elect to terminate the franchise agreement in the event a franchisee fails to open its studio for full use by customers within the earlier of days of receiving site and lease approval or days of signing the franchise agreement. royalty fees marketing fund and local advertising contributions will be charged to franchised centers based on a percentage of gross sales. advertising advertising costs which are included in operating expenses are expensed as incurred. subsequent events management has evaluated subsequent events through march the date the financial statements were available to be issued for possible disclosure and recognition in the financial statements. etf has signed two additional area representative agreements in january. note federal income tax the company has elected to file its income tax return on the cash basis as a partnership for federal income tax purposes and thus no income tax has been recorded in the statements. income from the partnership is taxed to the members in their individual returns on their share of the company earnings. the company net income or loss is allocated among the members in accordance with the operating agreement of the company. the company does not have any uncertain tax positions which must be considered for disclosure. etf franchising llc notes to financial statements december and note related party transactions etf fitness owns of etf and provides trademark licenses and the rights to the frogx fitness training program to the company. etf and etf fitness have entered into a joint venture agreement with etf arizona holdings llc to develop fitness studios in arizona. note operating lease etf has signed an operating lease for office space effective february through march. the minimum monthly rental for that period is plus taxes and a proportionate share of the building operating costs. future minimum annual rental commitments under the operating lease is as follows year ending amount note regulatory restrictions as a franchisor offering franchises in the state of washington the company is subject to washington administrative code revised code of washington rcw. and regulation by the state of washington department of financial institutions dfi. etf franchising llc balance sheet as of march total assets current assets bank accounts columbia checking. columbia checking impound. columbia savings. total bank accounts. accounts receivable accounts receivable. total accounts receivable. other current assets deposits for lease. inventory asset. prepaid commission. prepaid expenses. street loan to parent. undeposited funds. total other current assets. total current assets. fixed assets account depr equipment fitnessc. accum amortization. equipment fitness. equipment non fitness. account depr equipment non fitness. total equipment non fitness. furniture and fixtures. office equipment. total fixed assets. other assets organization costs. software development. account amortization software. fit test appendix wexer application. total software development. start up costs. website. total other assets. total assets. liabilities and equity liabilities these financial statements were prepared without an audit. investors in or sellers of franchises should be advised that no certified public accountant has audited these figures or expressed his opinion with regard to their contents or form. total current liabilities accounts payable accounts payable. total accounts payable. other current liabilities accruals. accrued fica and withholding. accrued payroll liabilities. business taxes payble. deferred revenue. direct deposit payable. payroll liabilities federal taxes. federal unemployment. washington sui employer. washington workers compensation. total payroll liabilities. total other current liabilities. total current liabilities. total liabilities. equity distributions awc group. etf arizona investments. etf fitness llc. prior year accum. total distributions. opening balance equity. partner contributions awc group. partner contributions etf arizona investments. partner contributions etf fitness llc. retained earnings. net income. total equity. total liabilities and equity. these financial statements were prepared without an audit. investors in or sellers of franchises should be advised that no certified public accountant has audited these figures or expressed his opinion with regard to their contents or form. etf franchising llc profit and loss january march total income annual franchise conference registration. annual franchise conference sponsorship. franchise fee license. franchise fee unit. franchise fees monthly franchise fees marketing fundamental franchise fees royalty. total franchise fees monthly. hardware frog pod. total hardware. technology fees monthly technology fee arkansas technology fee unit. total technology fees monthly. uncategorized income. total income. cost of goods sold cost of goods sold. total cost of goods sold. gross profit. expenses advertising. trade show displays. total advertising. bank charges. business development. commissions fees arkansas commissions. total commissions fees. dues subscriptions. eat the frog fx programming fx audio. total eat the frog fx programming. google accounts hosting. insurance. insurance liability. interest expense. legal professional fees. accounting. architectual design. these financial statements were prepared without an audit. investors in or sellers of franchises should be advised that no certified public accountant has audited these figures or expressed his opinion with regard to their contents or form. total legal cheng cohen. recruiting. total legal professional fees. license fees. management fees parent. marketing. marketing design. marketing outsource marketing. marketing photo video production. marketing printing. marketing swag. marketing research. total marketing. meals and entertainment. office expenses. phone grasshopper virtual. total office expenses. payroll expenses. health insurance. taxes. wages. total payroll expenses. quickbooks payments fees. rent or lease. shipping and delivery expense. subcontractors mcj associates. total subcontractors. supplies. taxes licenses tax washington state. taxes city. total taxes licenses. travel. travel meals. utilities. website development. website hosting. total expenses. net operating income. other income interest earned. total other income. other expenses reconciliation discrepancies. total other expenses. net other income. net income. these financial statements were prepared without an audit. investors in or sellers of franchises should be advised that no certified public accountant has audited these figures or expressed his opinion with regard to their contents or form. exhibit representations and acknowledgment statement etf franchising llc fdd ex. representations and acknowledgment statement. representations and acknowledgment statement the purpose of this statement is to demonstrate to etf franchising llc franchisor that the person signing below me or my whether acting individually or on behalf of any legal entity established to acquire the franchise rights a fully understands that the purchase of an etf franchise to operate as a studio is a significant long term commitment complete with its associated risks and is not relying on any statements representations promises or assurances that are not specifically set forth in franchisor franchise disclosure document and exhibits collectively the fdd in deciding to purchase the franchise. in that regard represent to franchisor and acknowledge that understand that buying a franchise is not a guarantee of success. purchasing or establishing any business is risky and the success or failure of the franchise is subject to many variables such as my skills and abilities and those of my partners officers employees the time my associates and devote to the business competition interest rates the economy inflation operation costs location lease terms the market place generally and other economic and business factors. am aware of and am willing to undertake these business risks. understand that the success or failure of my business will depend primarily upon my efforts and not those of franchisor. initial received a copy of the fdd including the franchise agreement at least calendar days business days in michigan and new york before executed the franchise agreement. understand that all of my rights and responsibilities and those of franchisor in connection with the franchise are set forth in these documents and only in these documents. acknowledge that have had the opportunity to personally and carefully review these documents and have in fact done so. have been advised to have professionals such as lawyers and accountants review the documents for me and to have them help me understand these documents. have also been advised to consult with other franchisees regarding the risks associated with the purchase of the franchise. initial neither the franchisor nor any of its officers employees or agents including any franchise broker has made a statement promise or assurance to me concerning any matter related to the franchise including those regarding advertising marketing training support service or assistance provided by franchisor that is contrary to or different from the information contained in the fdd. initial my decision to purchase the franchise has not been influenced by any oral representations assurances warranties guarantees or promises whatsoever made by the franchisor or any of its officers employees or agents including any franchise broker including as to the likelihood of success of the franchise. initial have made my own independent determination as to whether have the capital necessary to fund the business and my living expenses particularly during the start up phase. initial etf franchising llc fdd ex. representations and acknowledgment statement. please read the following question carefully. then select yes or no and place your initials where indicated. have you received any information from the franchisor or any of its officers employees or agents including any franchise broker concerning actual average projected or forecasted sales revenues income profits or earnings of the franchise business including any statement promise or assurance concerning the likelihood of success yes no initial here if you selected yes please describe the information you received on the lines below. initial prohibited parties clause. acknowledge that franchisor its employees and its agents are subject to. laws that prohibit or restrict a transactions with certain parties and the conduct of transactions involving certain foreign parties. these laws include without limitation. executive order the. foreign corrupt practices act the bank secrecy act the international money laundering abatement and anti terrorism financing act the export administration act the arms export control act the. patriot act and the international economic emergency powers act and the regulations issued pursuant to these and other. laws. as part of the express consideration for the purchase of the franchise represent that neither nor any of my employees agents or representatives nor any other person or entity associated with me is now or has been listed on. the. treasury department list of specially designated nationals. the. commerce department denied persons list unverified list entity list or general orders. the. state department debarred list or nonproliferation sanctions or. the annex to. executive order. warrant that neither nor any of my employees agents or representatives nor any other person or entity associated with me is now or has been i a person or entity who assists sponsors or supports terrorists or acts of terrorism or ii is owned or controlled by terrorists or sponsors of terrorism. warrant that am now and have been in compliance with. anti money laundering and counter terrorism financing laws and regulations and that any funds provided by me to franchisor were legally obtained in compliance with these laws. further covenant that neither nor any of my employees agents or representatives nor any other person or entity associated with me will during the term of the franchise agreement become a person or entity described above or otherwise become a target of any anti terrorism law during the term of the franchise agreement. if the studio that you will operate will be located in maryland or if you are a resident of maryland the following will apply etf franchising llc fdd ex. representations and acknowledgment statement. the representations made in this representations and acknowledgment statement are not intended to nor shall they act as a release estoppels or waiver of any liability under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. franchisee sign here if you are taking the franchise as an individual note use these blocks if you are an individual or a partnership but the partnership is not a separate legal entity signature print name date signature print name date sign here if you are taking the franchise as a corporation limited liability company or partnership print name of legal entity by signature print name title date signature print name date signature print name date etf franchising llc fdd ex. representations and acknowledgment statement. exhibit gg list of current franchisees area representatives etf franchising llc fdd ex. gg list of area representatives current franchisees. list of area representatives opened unit franchises as of december area representatives arizona etf arizona holdings llc contact troy cohen address east tailfeather drive scottsdale arizona franchisee address city state phone. ea fitness llc ray road suite a phoenix arizona orange county california optimum strength llc contact nic stranberg address east charlene place phoenix arizona north carolina scott patterson contact scott patterson address victoria lake drive waxhaw north carolina indiana dan mock contact dan mock address artman avenue lebanon in list of signed but not opened unit franchises as of december franchisee address city state. ea fitness llc north dakota ray road suite a phoenix arizona. ea fitness llc road ray road suite a phoenix arizona. garrett connie lee north country club trail scottsdale arizona. don mcmahon steeplechase boulevard suite cumming georgia. tumi capital llc breitwieser lane naperville illinois. suddenly green llc. pennsylvania. suite carmel indiana. dan mock massachusetts avenue suite indianapolis indiana. scott patterson tense victoria drive waxhaw north carolina. imitheos fitness llc burnaby court cary north carolina. green studios llc ashburn shopping plaza suite ashburn virginia north scottsdale arizona pistis investments llc contact troy cohen address. scottsdale road suite scottsdale arizona etf franchising llc fdd ex. gg list of area representatives current franchisees. operating unit chandler ahwatukee arizona ea fitness llc contact mike mcmahon address east alameda road scottsdale arizona units franchise agreements signed but not yet operational etf franchising llc fdd ex. gg list of area representatives current franchisees. etf franchising llc fdd ex. list of former franchisees. exhibit list of former franchisees new exhibit etf franchising llc fdd ex. list of former franchisees. list of franchisees who left the system in the year ended or have not communicated with us in the last weeks none exhibit sample general release etf franchising llc fdd ex. sample general release. etf franchising llc grant of franchisor consent and franchisee release etf franchising llc we us or our and the undersigned franchisee you or your currently are parties to a certain franchise agreement the franchise agreement dated. you have asked us to take the following action or to agree to the following request insert as appropriate for renewal situation. we have the right under the franchise agreement to obtain a general release from you and if applicable your owners as a condition of taking this action or agreeing to this request. therefore we are willing to take the action or agree to the request specified above if you and if applicable your owners give us the release and covenant not to sue provided below in this document. you and if applicable your owners are willing to give us the release and covenant not to sue provided below as partial consideration for our willingness to take the action or agree to the request described above. consistent with the previous introduction you on your own behalf and on behalf of your successors heirs executors administrators personal representatives agents assigns partners owners managers directors officers principals employees and affiliated entities collectively the releasing parties hereby forever release and discharge us and our current and former officers directors owners managers principals employees agents representatives affiliated entities successors and assigns collectively the etf parties from any and all claims damages known and unknown demands causes of action suits duties liabilities and agreements of any nature and kind collectively claims that you and any of the other releasing parties now has ever had or but for this document hereafter would or could have against any of the etf parties including without limitation claims arising out of or related to the etf parties obligations under the franchise agreement or otherwise arising from or related to your and the other releasing parties relationship from the beginning of time to the date of your signature below with any of the etf parties. you on your own behalf and on behalf of the other releasing parties further covenant not to sue any of the etf parties on any of the claims released by this paragraph and represent that you have not assigned any of the claims released by this paragraph to any individual or entity who is not bound by this paragraph. we also are entitled to a release and covenant not to sue from your owners. by his her or their separate signatures below your owners likewise grant to us the release and covenant not to sue provided above. etf franchising llc fdd ex. sample general release. if if the centerfranchise you operate under the franchise agreementfranchise agreement is located in california or if you areany of the releasing parties is resident of california the following shall apply section acknowledgment. it is your intention on your own behalf and on behalf of the releasing parties in executing this release that this instrument be and is general release which shall be effective as bar to each and every claim demand or cause of action released by you or the releasing parties. you recognize that you or the releasing parties may have some claim demand or cause of action against the etfetf parties of which you he she or it is totally unaware and unsuspecting which you he she or it is giving up by executing this release. it is your intention on your own behalf and on behalf of the releasing parties in executing this instrument that it will deprive you him her or it of each such claim demand or cause of action and prevent you him her or it from asserting it against the etfetf parties. in furtherance of this intention you on your own behalf and on behalf of the releasing parties expressly waive any rights or benefits conferred by the provisions of section of the california civil code which provides as follows general release does not extend to claims whichthat the creditor or releasing party does not know or suspect to exist in the creditorshis or her favor at the time of executing the release and that which if known by the creditor musthim or her would have materially affected the creditorshis or her settlement with the debtor or released party. you acknowledge and represent that you have consulted with legal counsel before executing this release and that you understand its meaning including the effect of section of the california civil code and expressly consent that this release shall be given full force and effect according to each and all of its express terms and provisions including without limitation those relating to the release of unknown and unsuspected claims demands and causes of action. if the studio is located in maryland or if you are resident of maryland the following shall apply if the franchise you operate under the franchise agreement is located in maryland or if any of the releasing parties is a resident of maryland the following shall apply etf franchising llc fdd ex. sample general release. any general release provided for hereunder shall not apply to any liability under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law any general release provided for hereunder shall not apply to any liability under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. signature page follows etf franchising llc fdd ex. sample general release. in witness whereof the parties hereto have executed and delivered this release on the date stated on the first page hereof. etf franchising llc print name title by date franchisee print name title by date franchisee owner print name title by date print name title by date etf franchising llc fdd ex. sample general release. new york representations page franchisor represents that this franchise disclosure document does not knowingly omit any material fact or contain any untrue statement of material fact. etf franchising llc fdd ex. receipts. exhibit receipts etf franchising llc fdd ex. receipts. receipt our copy this disclosure document summarizes certain provisions of the master franchise agreement and other information in plain language. read this disclosure document and all agreements carefully. if etf franchising llc offers you a franchise it must provide this disclosure document to you calendar days before you sign a binding agreement with or make a payment to etf franchising llc. or an affiliate in connection with the proposed franchise sale or sooner if required by applicable state law. under iowa law we must give you this disclosure document at the earlier of our street personal meeting or calendar days before you sign ana binding agreement with or make a payment to us or an affiliate in connection with the proposed franchise sale. under new york law we must provide this ddisclosure ddocument at the earlier of the street personal meeting or business days before you sign a binding agreement with or make a payment to us or an affiliate in connection with the proposed franchise sale. under michigan requires that welaw etf franchising llc must give you this ddisclosure ddocument at least business days before the execution of anyyou sign a binding franchise or other agreement or thewith or make a payment of any consideration whichever occurs firstto us or an affiliate in connection with the proposed franchise sale. if etf franchising llc does not deliver this disclosure document on time or if it contains a false or misleading statement or a material omission a violation of federal law and state law may have occurred and should be reported to the federal trade commission washington. and the appropriate state agency identified on exhibit. the franchisor is etf franchising llc highlands drive north-east suite pmb issaquah washington phone. the franchise seller for this offering is joe culver etf franchising llc highlands drive north-east suite pmb issaquah washington aaron culver etf franchising llc highlands drive north-east suite pmb issaquah washington jesse curry etf franchising llc highlands drive north-east suite pmb issaquah washington name of franchise seller principal business address telephone number issuance date march.april see exhibit for etf franchising llc registered agents authorized to receive service of process. have received a disclosure document dated march april that included the following exhibits exhibit state administrators agents exhibit financial statements for service of process exhibit representations and acknowledgment exhibit franchise agreement statement exhibit table of contents to operations exhibit gg list of current franchisees manual exhibit area representativeslist of former franchisees exhibit state addenda to disclosure document exhibit sample general release and agreement riders exhibit receipts date signature printed name date signature printed name etf franchising llc fdd ex. receipts. please sign this copy of the receipt print the date on which you received this disclosure document and return it by mail or facsimile to etf franchising llc highlands drive north-east suite pmb issaquah washington phone. etf franchising llc fdd ex. receipts. receipt your copy this disclosure document summarizes certain provisions of the master franchise agreement and other information in plain language. read this disclosure document and all agreements carefully. if etf franchising llc offers you a franchise it must provide this disclosure document to you calendar days before you sign a binding agreement with or make a payment to etf franchising llc. or an affiliate in connection with the proposed franchise sale or sooner if required by applicable state law. under iowa law we must give you this disclosure document at the earlier of our street personal meeting or calendar days before you sign ana binding agreement with or make a payment to us or an affiliate in connection with the proposed franchise sale. under new york law we must provide this ddisclosure ddocument at the earlier of the street personal meeting or business days before you sign a binding agreement with or make a payment to us or an affiliate in connection with the proposed franchise sale. under michigan requires that welaw etf franchising llc must give you this ddisclosure ddocument at least business days before the execution of anyyou sign a binding franchise or other agreement or thewith or make a payment of any consideration whichever occurs firstto us or an affiliate in connection with the proposed franchise sale. if etf franchising llc does not deliver this disclosure document on time or if it contains a false or misleading statement or a material omission a violation of federal law and state law may have occurred and should be reported to the federal trade commission washington. and the appropriate state agency identified on exhibit. the franchisor is etf franchising llc highlands drive north-east suite pmb issaquah washington phone. the franchise seller for this offering is joe culver etf franchising llc highlands drive north-east suite pmb issaquah washington aaron culver etf franchising llc highlands drive north-east suite pmb issaquah washington jesse curry etf franchising llc highlands drive north-east suite pmb issaquah washington name of franchise seller principal business address telephone number issuance date march.april see exhibit for etf franchising llc registered agents authorized to receive service of process. have received a disclosure document dated march april that included the following exhibits exhibit state administrators agents exhibit financial statements for service of process exhibit representations and acknowledgment exhibit franchise agreement statement exhibit table of contents to operations exhibit gg list of current franchisees manual exhibit area representativeslist of former franchisees exhibit state addenda to disclosure document exhibit sample general release and agreement riders exhibit receipts date signature printed name date signature printed name etf franchising llc fdd ex. receipts. please sign this copy of the receipt print the date on which you received this disclosure document and keep it for your records. etf franchising llc fdd ex. receipts.