franchise disclosure document kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company. via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona telephone website facebook twitter coldstone we offer cold stone creamery franchises. as a franchisee you will operate a restaurant called cold stone creamery specializing in super premium fresh made ice cream cakes pies smoothies shakespeare specialty beverages soft drinks and other frozen dessert products prepared using proprietary recipes and an assortment of complementary toppings and mix ins on a take out or eat in basis and branded licensed products. you also have the option of having a yogurt bar and selling cold stone yogurt bar products in your cold stone creamery restaurant. the total investment necessary to begin operation of a cold stone creamery franchise ranges from to for a traditional restaurant and from to for a non traditional restaurant. this includes to for a traditional restaurant and to for a non traditional restaurant that must be paid to the franchisor or its affiliate. this disclosure document summarizes certain provisions of your franchise agreement and other information in plain english. read this disclosure document and all accompanying agreements carefully. you must receive this disclosure document at least calendar days before you sign a binding agreement with or make any payment to the franchisor or an affiliate in connection with the proposed franchise sale. note however that no governmental agency has verified the information contained in this document. you may wish to receive your disclosure document in another format that is more convenient for you. to discuss the availability of disclosures in different formats contact kahala franchising. attn john wuycheck. via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona and. the terms of your contract will govern your franchise relationship. don rely on the disclosure document alone to understand your contract. read all of your contract carefully. show your contract and this disclosure document to an advisor like a lawyer or an accountant. buying a franchise is a complex investment. the information in this disclosure document can help you make up your mind. more information on franchising such as consumer guide to buying a franchise which can help you understand how to use this disclosure document is available from the federal trade commission. you can contact the ftc at ftc help or by writing to the ftc at pennsylvania avenue north-west washington. you can also visit the ftc home page at for additional information. call your state agency or visit your public library for other sources of information on franchising. there may also be laws on franchising in your state. ask your state agencies about them. issuance date march http http http http http csc fdd verb how to use this franchise disclosure document here are some questions you may be asking about buying a franchise and tips on how to find more information question where to find information how much can earn? item may give you information about outlet sales costs profits or losses. you should also try to obtain this information from others like current and former franchisees. you can find their names and contact information in item or exhibit. how much will need to invest? items and list fees you will be paying to the franchisor or at the franchisor direction. item lists the initial investment to open. item describes the suppliers you must use. does the franchisor have the financial ability to provide support to my business? item or exhibit includes financial statements. review these statements carefully. is the franchise system stable growing or shrinking? item summarizes the recent history of the number of company owned and franchised outlets. will my business be the only cold stone creamery business in my area? item and the territory provisions in the franchise agreement describe whether the franchisor and other franchisees can compete with you. does the franchisor have a troubled legal history? items and tell you whether the franchisor or its management have been involved in material litigation or bankruptcy proceedings. what it like to be a cold stone creamery franchisee? item or exhibit lists current and former franchisees. you can contact them to ask about their experiences. what else should know? these questions are only a few things you should look for. review all items and all exhibits in this disclosure document to better understand this franchise opportunity. see the table of contents. csc fdd verb what you need to know about franchising generally continuing responsibility to pay fees. you may have to pay royalties and other fees even if you are losing money. business model can change. the franchise agreement may allow the franchisor to change its manuals and business model without your consent. these changes may require you to make additional investments in your franchise business or may harm your franchise business. supplier restrictions. you may have to buy or lease items from the franchisor or a limited group of suppliers the franchisor designates. these items may be more expensive than similar items you could buy on your own. operating restrictions. the franchise agreement may prohibit you from operating a similar business during the term of the franchise. there are usually other restrictions. some examples may include controlling your location your access to customers what you sell how you market and your hours of operation. competition from franchisor. even if the franchise agreement grants you a territory the franchisor may have the right to compete with you in your territory. renewal. your franchise agreement may not permit you to renew. even if it does you may have to sign a new agreement with different terms and conditions in order to continue to operate your franchise business. when your franchise ends. the franchise agreement may prohibit you from operating a similar business after your franchise ends even if you still have obligations to your landlord or other creditors. some states require registration your state may have a franchise law or other law that requires franchisors to register before offering or selling franchises in the state. registration does not mean that the state recommends the franchise or has verified the information in this document. to find out if your state has a registration requirement or to contact your state use the agency information in exhibit. your state also may have laws that require special disclosures or amendments be made to your franchise agreement. if so you should check the state specific addenda. see the table of contents for the location of the state specific addenda. csc fdd verb special risks to consider about this franchise certain states require that the following risk be highlighted. out of state dispute resolution. the franchise agreement requires you to resolve disputes with the franchisor by mediation arbitration and or litigation only in arizona. out of state mediation arbitration or litigation may force you to accept a less favorable settlement for disputes. it may also cost more to mediate arbitrate or litigate with the franchisor in arizona than in your own state. spousal liability. your spouse must sign a document that makes your spouse liable for all financial obligations under the franchise agreement even though your spouse has no ownership interest in the franchise. this guarantee will place both your and your spouse marital and personal assets perhaps including your house at risk if your franchise fails. certain states may require other risks to be highlighted. check the state specific addenda if any to see whether your state requires other risks to be highlighted. table of contents items item the franchisor and any parents predecessors and affiliates. item business experience. item litigation. item bankruptcy. item initial fees. item other fees. item estimated initial investment. item restrictions on sources of products and services. item franchisee obligations. item financing. item franchisor assistance advertising computer systems and training. item territory. item trademarks. item patents copyrights and proprietary information. item obligation to participate in the actual operation of the franchise business. item restrictions on what the franchisee may sell. item renewal termination transfer and dispute resolution. item public figures. item financial performance representations. item outlets and franchisee information. item financial statements. item contracts. item receipts. exhibits state addenda to franchise disclosure document directory of state agencies and administrators franchisor agent for service of process asset purchase agreement for sale of a corporate store to a franchisee with promissory note and security agreement and guaranty if applicable franchise agreement new franchise agreement renewal franchise agreement transfer guaranty of franchise agreement non disclosure and non competition agreement collateral assignment and irrevocable special power of attorney amendment to franchise agreement for non traditional locations excluding those colorado branded with another affiliated brand rocky mountain chocolate factory addendum to franchise disclosure document and amendment to franchise agreement amendment to franchise agreement for colorado branded non traditional locations in store training release and waiver of liability agreement addendum to the franchise agreement for sba loans required lease terms lease addendum to lease agreement rmcf required lease terms lease addendum to lease agreement lease guaranty acknowledgment lease review and or negotiation agreement and release and state addenda sublease and guaranty of sublease franchisee pays rent directly to landlord sublease and guaranty of sublease franchisor or its affiliate collects rent from franchisee and pays to landlord pre authorized electronic funds transfer form participation agreement general release for renewal of franchise agreement consent to transfer and release agreement without sublease consent to transfer and release agreement with sublease state addenda to franchise documents table of contents confidential operations manual list of franchise owners financial statements performance guaranty addendum for sale of company affiliated owned stores state effective dates receipts item the franchisor and any parents predecessors and affiliates the franchisor is kahala franchising. to simplify the language in this disclosure document kahala franchising. may be referred to as kahala franchising we us our and franchisor. you and your mean the person partnership corporation limited liability company or other entity that buys the cold stone creamery unit franchise. if you are a business entity you includes the shareholders members or owners of the business to the extent each guaranties or otherwise agrees to perform or be bound by the obligations of the business entity. the franchisor parents and predecessors kahala franchising is an arizona limited liability company which was formed on december. kahala franchising is in the business of franchising to others the right to own and operate quick service restaurants. our parent company is kahala brands incorporated formerly known as kahala brands limited kahala brands. kahala brands was formerly known as kahala corporation but changed its name to kahala brands in december. on july kahala brands merged with a wholly owned subsidiary of mty food group incorporated mty having an address at transcanada highway suite saint laurent qubec h dakota south dakota mf. kahala brands parent company became mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated mty united states of america usa or originally known as the extreme pita franchising united states of america usa or incorporated and having an address of via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona mty united states of america usa or parent corporation is mty franchising incorporated mty canada a canadian corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of mty formerly known as mty tiki ming enterprises incorporated and having an address at route transcanadienne suite ville saint laurent quebec h dakota south dakota masculine canada. in addition to the concepts franchised by kahala franchising or its current or former us based affiliates mty or one or more of its canadian based subsidiaries franchises over different restaurant concepts and has over units under the following trademarks in canada primarily and other international countries allo mon coco baton rouge steakhouse bar ben florentine big smoke burger bunsmaster caf depot casa grecque country style cultures dagwoods frat cucina extreme pita giorgio jugo juice kim chi koryo koya kuto comptoir tartares louisiana boite verte louisiana crmire louisiana diperie and cakes shakespeare by louisiana dip madisons manchu wok toujours mikes mmmuffins mister souvlaki mister sub mucho burrito muffin plus burger pizza delight scores senseasian south street burger sukiyaki sushi go sushiman sushi shop thai express thazone the works tiki ming timothy world coffee the coop wicked chicken tosto turtle john tutti frutti valentine van houtte vanellis vie nam villa madina spice brothers steak frites wasabi grill noodle and yuzu trademarks. mty also sub franchises two other different restaurant concepts tcby and tacotime. mty is a publicly traded company headquartered in montreal qubec canada. effective march mty through the merger of a wholly owned subsidiary with imvescor restaurant group incorporated irg acquired all the outstanding shares of irg. at closing irg operated brands in canada and had locations in operation. the name and principal business address of any predecessors for cold stone creamery brand during the year period immediately before the close of kahala franchising most recent fiscal year is kahala franchise corporation via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona. our predecessor kahala franchise corporation did not conduct the type of business the franchisee will operate but its affiliate csc restaurants has been conducting the type of business the franchisee will operate by operating corporate cold stone creamery stores since april its affiliate kahala holdings llc kahala holdings has been conducting the type of business the franchisee will operate by operating corporate cold stone creamery stores since january and another affiliate kahala restaurants. an arizona limited liability company kahala restaurants has been conducting the type of business the franchise will operate by operating corporate cold stone creamery stores since january. kahala franchise corporation offered franchises providing the type of business the franchisee will operate from march until march. the name and principal business address of another predecessor for cold stone creamery during the year period immediately before the close of kahala franchising most recent fiscal year is cold stone creamery incorporated via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona. predecessor cold stone creamery incorporated conducted the type of business the franchisee will operate from april until march. predecessor cold stone creamery incorporated offered traditional franchises providing the type of business the franchisee will operate from april until march and offered non traditional franchises providing the type of business the franchisee will operate from november until march. cold stone creamery incorporated did not operate businesses of the type being franchised but rather cold stone creamery restaurants llc csc restaurants its affiliate did conduct the type of business the franchisee will operate by operating corporate cold stone creamery since april. neither cold stone creamery incorporated nor any of its affiliates had offered franchises in any other line of business. kahala franchise corporation offered franchises under the following names which are now being offered by kahala franchising as of august surf city squeeze rollerz rolled sandwiches frullati cafe bakery ranch one samurai sam teriyaki grill tacotime great steak johnnie new york pizzeria nrgize lifestyle cafe blimpie and cereality cereal bar cafe. as of november there were franchises in the united states plus an additional cold stone creamery internationally plus an additional licensed outlets in the united states and company owned restaurants in the united states. there were also rocky mountain chocolate factory stores and thomas hortons store that are colorado branded in cold stone creamery restaurants in the united states. the license agreement allowing selected cold stone creamery franchisees to sell thomas hortons products in their cold stone creamery restaurants has been terminated so no additional cold stone creamery franchisees may amend their franchise agreement to allow them to sell thomas hortons products in their restaurants. we have a master license agreement dated august with rocky mountain chocolate factory incorporated rmcf under which selected franchised and company owned cold stone creamery restaurants will be allowed to sell rmcf products in addition to the cold stone creamery product offering see exhibit. we have been offering cold stone creamery franchises since august under the name of kahala franchising. kahala franchising does not operate businesses of the type being franchised but rather kahala holdings and kahala restaurants affiliates of kahala franchising operate many of our corporate owned restaurants including businesses of the type being franchised. any corporate owned cold stone creamery restaurants may compete with franchised restaurants in its vicinity. other franchises offered by kahala franchising or its affiliate kahala franchising is only offering cold stone creamery unit franchise under this disclosure document. each of the franchises detailed below are offered by kahala franchising or. affiliate under separate disclosure documents for each brand. the following summarizes the cold stone creamery and these other quick service restaurant brands as of november including the type of restaurant business number of franchised units in operation as of november and the date kahala franchising or its current or former affiliates offered franchises in those brands brand name type of restaurant business number of units as of november dates unit franchises began being offered by us or our affiliate america taco shop restaurants serving freshly prepared mexican food including tacos burritos and quesadillas company owned unit and licensed units. november under kahala franchising blimpie restaurants serving submarine sandwiches and salads franchised units in the united states and internationally plus company owned units in the united states from until by kahala franchise corporation and since august under kahala franchising cereality cereal bar cafe restaurants serving hot and cold cereals and cereal blends with toppings oatmeal and parfaits franchised units from until by kahala franchise corporation and since august under kahala franchising chicken strips and dips ghost kitchen concept serving primarily chicken tenders. franchised unit march kahala franchising. cold stone creamery restaurants serving super premium freshly made ice cream cakes pies smoothies shakespeare and other frozen dessert products franchised units in the united states and internationally plus company owned units. cold stone creamery franchises also sell rocky mountain chocolate factory products and cold stone creamery franchise also sells thomas from may until march by cold stone creamery incorporated from march until march by kahala franchise corporation and since august under kahala franchising brand name type of restaurant business number of units as of november dates unit franchises began being offered by us or our affiliate hortons products. additionally licensed units. frullati cafe bakery restaurants serving sandwiches salads smoothies and baked goods franchised units from until by frullati franchise systems incorporated from until march by kahala franchise corporation and since august under kahala franchising great steak restaurants serving philadelphia cheesesteak sandwiches chicken sandwiches and french fries franchised units in the united states and internationally plus company owned unit. from until march by kahala franchise corporation and since august under kahala franchising johnnie new york pizzeria restaurants serving new york style pizza calzones salads and related italian cuisine menu items franchised units from until march by kahala franchise corporation and since august under kahala franchising kahala coffee traders restaurants serving coffee and espresso tea baked goods parfaits sandwiches and merchandise franchised units. and licensed unit. november under kahala franchising brand name type of restaurant business number of units as of november dates unit franchises began being offered by us or our affiliate maui wowi store fronts or portable units serving fruit smoothies hawaiian coffee and espresso franchised units in the united states and internationally since november under kahala franchising nrgize lifestyle cafe cafes serving smoothies fruit drinks and nutritional supplements franchised units from until march by kahala franchise corporation and since august under kahala franchising pinkberry restaurants serving frozen yogurt yogurt drinks smoothies and frozen desserts franchised units. and licensed units. from july until april under pinkberry ventures incorporated and since june under kahala franchising planet smoothie restaurants serving smoothies smoothie bowls juices and nutritional supplements franchised units in the united states and internationally additionally as of fiscal year end there were tasti lite outlets. since june under kahala franchising ranch one restaurants specializing in grilled and crispy breaded chicken sandwiches franchised units from until by ranch group incorporated from until march by kahala franchise corporation and since august under kahala franchising rollerz rolled sandwiches restaurants serving gourmet rolled sandwiches salads soups and baked goods franchised unit from until by rollerz franchise systems. from until march by kahala franchise corporation and since august under kahala franchising brand name type of restaurant business number of units as of november dates unit franchises began being offered by us or our affiliate samurai sam teriyaki grill restaurants serving japanese rice bowls and noodle bowls franchised units from until by spelling franchising incorporated from until march by kahala franchise corporation and since august under kahala franchising surf city squeeze juice bars serving smoothies fruit drinks and nutritional supplements franchised units plus company owned unit from until by malibu smoothie franchise corporation and surf city squeeze franchise corporation from until march by kahala franchise corporation and since august under kahala franchising tacotime restaurants serving freshly prepared mexican food including burritos taco quesadillas and nachos franchised units franchised in the united states and internationally additionally there are licensed units. from until by taco time international incorporated from until march by kahala franchise corporation and since august under kahala franchising brand name type of restaurant business number of units as of november dates unit franchises began being offered by us or our affiliate extreme pita restaurants serving wrap style hot and cold pita and wrap sandwiches franchised units from march to july the extreme pita franchising united states of america usa or incorporated since july mty united states of america usa or grabbagreen restaurants serving healthy food juice smoothies and related products franchised units since february under mty united states of america usa or brand name type of restaurant business number of units as of november dates unit franchises began being offered by us or our affiliate ginger sushi boutique poke shop restaurant serving a variety of sushi menu items and drinks franchised units from september under mty united states of america usa or mucho burrito restaurants offering burritos quesadillas tacos nachos and other assorted food and drinks franchised units from january under mucho burrito franchising united states of america usa or incorporated from march under mty united states of america usa or thai express restaurant serving thai style foods and drinks franchised units plus company owned from february under mty united states of america usa or louisiana diperie restaurant serving retail sale of an ice cream product and various dips and toppings franchised unit from april under mty united states of america usa or baja fresh restaurant offering a limited menu featuring fresh high quality mexican style food products franchised units in the united states and internationally plus company owned units october until july under triune llc and since then under bfah louisiana salsa restaurant offering a limited menu featuring fresh high quality mexican style food products franchised units october under louisiana salsa franchise llc the counter full service restaurant featuring build your own burgers signature burgers side dishes sandwiches and salads franchised units in the united states and internationally december under cb franchise systems llc. then from march under mty united states of america usa or brand name type of restaurant business number of units as of november dates unit franchises began being offered by us or our affiliate built custom burgers fast casual restaurant featuring build your own burgers signature burgers side dishes sandwiches and salads franchised units in the united states and internationally december under built franchise systems llc. then from march under mty united states of america usa or sweetfrog restaurant offering frozen yogurt using a self serve delivery format franchised units in the united states which include licensed franchisees plus internationally september under mty united states of america usa or manchu wok quick service restaurant serving fast and fresh chinese cuisine franchised units march mty united states of america usa or ben florentine restaurant serving a superior breakfast lunch experience franchised units from december under mty united states of america usa or papa murphy retail food outlet serving primarily take and bake pizza franchised units in the united states and internationally plus company owned units from may papa murphy international llc famous dave restaurants specializing in authentic down home genuine smoked barbecue franchised units in the united states and internationally plus company owned units from march under famous dave of america incorporated village inn restaurant specializing in pancakes omelets skillets eggs and other popular breakfast items franchised units plus company owned units from august under virgin islands brandco llc brand name type of restaurant business number of units as of november dates unit franchises began being offered by us or our affiliate barrio queen restaurants specializing in authentic southern mexican company owned units from march under bq concepts llc wetzel pretzels restaurant specializing in hand rolled fresh baked soft pretzels franchised units in the united states and internationally plus company owned units from april under wetzel pretzels llc we or our affiliates had previously also franchised the right to purchase a defined geographic area to become an area representee in however as of the issuance date of this disclosure document we or our affiliates are not offering area representative agreements under a separate area representative franchise disclosure document for any brands other than louisiana diperie planet smoothie and blimpie but may do so for additional brands in the future under a separate disclosure document. affiliates that provide products or services to franchisees kahala management. kahala management an affiliate of kahala franchising is an arizona limited liability company that provides administrative legal accounting sales pos phone support real estate and marketing support services to kahala franchising. in december of kgc llc a colorado limited liability company kgc originally created to administer gift card programs merged into kahala management. kahala holdings and kahala restaurants are affiliates of kahala franchising that own and operate company owned outlets detailed above. csc restaurants is an affiliate of kahala franchising that along with kahala holdings and kahala restaurants owns and operates the cold stone creamery company owned outlets. kahala advertising llc an arizona limited liability company kahala advertising is an affiliate of kahala franchising that began administering the national advertising funds for each of the brands and the regional cooperatives indiana neptune equipment services llc an arizona limited liability company neptune equipment is an affiliate of kahala franchising that is an approved retailer of equipment that sells distributes and coordinates logistics of equipment menu boards interior and exterior signage and smallwares to kahala franchising franchisees and licensees. cold stone creamery leasing company incorporated csc leasing another affiliate of kahala franchising was incorporated for the purpose of leasing sites for cold stone creamery restaurants and subleasing them to franchisees. csc real estate management llc an arizona limited liability company csc real estate provides real estate management services to cold stone creamery incorporated cold stone and csc leasing. csc leasing does not operate businesses of the type being franchised nor does it offer or sell franchises of cold stone creamery restaurants. some blimpie restaurants are leased by subsidiaries of our affiliate blimpie leasing affiliates kres holdings. an arizona limited liability company kres and in turn subleased by such entities to blimpie franchisees. some existing cold stone creamery restaurants are leased by either of our affiliates csc leasing or cold stone collectively cold stone leasing affiliates. in these situations our cold stone leasing affiliates enter into a direct lease with the property owner master lease for the location of the cold stone creamery restaurant and then sublease the location to the franchisee for that particular cold stone creamery restaurant using our standard forms of sublease see exhibits and sublease guaranty of sublease and state addenda. in most other cases you will enter into a lease for the premises of your cold stone creamery restaurant directly with the property owner. csc real estate our affiliate provides real estate management services to csc leasing. blimpie leasing affiliates and cold stone leasing affiliates shall collectively be referred to in this disclosure document as the leasing affiliates. other agreements kahala franchising previously offered franchises for a take and bake pizza concept called pizza fresh take bake. it began franchising pizza fresh take bake in november and ceased offering pizza fresh take bake franchises in december. during that time period there were no pizza fresh take bake franchises sold. two corporately owned pizza fresh take bake restaurants were opened in but both closed in and there are no pizza fresh take bake restaurants currently in operation. kahala franchise corporation previously offered franchises for a kiosk style ice cream dessert concept called waffl. it began franchising waffl in and ceased offering waffl franchises in december. during that time period there were waffl franchises sold. as of november no waffl restaurants were open. additionally kahala franchise corporation previously offered franchises for a premium soft serve frozen dessert product called tango. it began offering tango franchises in may and ceased selling tango franchises in november. during that time there were no tango franchises sold and there are no tango franchise locations currently in operation. tasti lite llc is an affiliate of kahala franchising that previously franchised the tasti lite frozen dessert brand. kahala franchising is now offering tasti lite products as a menu offering in planet smoothie restaurants. as of november there were tasti lite franchises in the united states. taco time international incorporated tti was a predecessor franchisor of the tacotime brand. tti rights and obligations under a master franchise agreement it entered into on march mfa were assigned to kahala franchising. under the mfa mty canada operates as the master franchisor of the tacotime brand for the entire country of canada. as of the date of this disclosure document the mfa is still in effect. tti also entered into a western washington area franchise agreement with accord incorporated accord dated april as amended western washington agreement under which tti assigned its rights to franchise tacotime in several counties and cities in the state of washington to accord accord territory. the western washington agreement was ultimately assigned from tti to kahala franchising. accord is not an affiliate of kahala franchising. as of november there were tacotime licensed restaurants in operation in the accord territory. as of the date of this disclosure document the western washington agreement is still in effect. tti did not enter into any other territory agreements that are currently in effect. we are not offering tacotime franchises under this disclosure document. blimpie international incorporated bi was a predecessor franchisor of the blimpie brand. bi entered into a trademark distribution agreement with blimpie of california incorporated dated july as amended tda under which blimpie of california incorporated operates as a subfranchisor for the blimpie brand in a portion of southern california. the tda was ultimately assigned from bi to kahala franchising. blimpie of california incorporated is not an affiliate of kahala franchising. as of november there were blimpie franchises in operation in blimpie of california incorporated territory. as of the date of this disclosure document the tda is still in effect. bi did not enter into any other trademark distribution agreements that are currently in effect. we are not offering any blimpie franchises under this disclosure document. on august mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated and its wholly owned subsidiary grill merger sub incorporated merger sub entered into an agreement with bbq holdings incorporated bbq a minnesota corporation providing for the acquisition of bbq by mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated consisting of a tender offer the offer for all of the outstanding shares of bbq common stock followed by a subsequent merger of merger sub with and into bbq the bbq merger with bbq surviving the bbq merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated this transaction included the rights to franchise and or operate the barrio queen famous dave village inn bakers square granite city food and brewery real urban bbq craft republic bar grill champps kitchen bar fox hound and tahoe joe famous steakhouse brands. bbq through its subsidiary virgin islands brandco llc a delaware limited liability company offers village inn restaurants. as of november there were village inn restaurants including franchised and company owned in the united states. bbq through its subsidiary famous dave of america incorporated a minnesota corporation offers famous dave restaurants. as of november there were famous dave restaurants including franchised and company owned in the united states and franchised restaurants internationally in the uae and canada. with the merger closing that took place on september mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated is the parent company of both virgin islands brandco llc and famous dave of america incorporated on december mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated and its wholly owned subsidiary twisted merger sub incorporated wp merger sub a delaware corporation entered into an agreement with cop wp parent incorporated cop a delaware corporation providing for the acquisition of cop by mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated consisting of a merger of wp merger sub with and into cop the cop merger with cop surviving the cop merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated this transaction included the rights to franchise and or operate the wetzel pretzel brand through cop subsidiary wetzel pretzels llc a california limited liability company. as of november there were wetzel pretzels restaurants including franchised and company owned in the united states and franchised restaurants internationally. with the merger closing that took place on december mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated is the parent company of wetzel pretzels llc. on december mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated via its wholly owned subsidiary sauce restaurants llc sauce restaurants an arizona limited liability company simultaneously signed and closed an asset purchase agreement with sauce llc an arizona limited liability company sauce holdings llc a delaware limited liability company and several other of their affiliates collectively sauce sellers providing for the acquisition of the assets of sauce sellers by sauce restaurants. this transaction included the rights to operate and ultimately franchise should sauce restaurants so desire the sauce pizza and wine brand. as of november there were sauce pizza and wine restaurants all of which were company owned in the united states. bbq holdings incorporated a subsidiary of mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated is the direct parent company of sauce restaurants. except as described above neither we nor any of our affiliates have offered any other franchises in any other line of business. the principal place of business of kahala franchising and its affiliates kahala management kahala advertising kres ttsm kaha acquisition kahala holdings kahala restaurants cold stone csc restaurants csc leasing csc international csc real estate neptune equipment and kahala brands island via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona. the identity and principal business address of kahala franchising agent for service of process is listed in exhibit to this disclosure document. the franchise if you qualify you may i construct a new cold stone creamery restaurant ii purchase one of our cold stone creamery franchises by acquiring an existing business from another franchisee or from us or iii convert all of your existing retail operations from another brand to our cold stone creamery brand. the business you will operate is a single traditional or non traditional cold stone creamery restaurant specializing in super premium fresh made ice cream cakes pies smoothies shakespeare specialty beverages soft drinks and other frozen dessert products prepared using proprietary recipes and an assortment of complementary toppings and mix ins on a take out delivery or eat in basis at a specific location approved by us and using the trademarks cold stone creamery and other trademarks trade names service marks logotypes and other commercial symbols we adopt and authorize. the ice cream is used to prepare cakes pies smoothies shakespeare specialty beverages and other frozen dessert products. traditional cold stone creamery restaurant is a cold stone creamery restaurant that is easily accessible by the general public such as a free standing building inline retail shop shopping mall or street front location. traditional cold stone creamery restaurant normally offers a full cold stone creamery menu. non traditional cold stone creamery restaurant is a restaurant that is located in a non traditional marketplace as determined in franchisor sole discretion such as an airport amusement park sports or entertainment venue train station travel plaza toll roads cafeteria retail store convenience store military base hospital office building movie theater hotel casino kiosk cart or high school or college campus. non traditional cold stone creamery restaurant generally offers a limited version of the full cold stone creamery menu. cold stone creamery restaurant whether traditional or non traditional is also referred to as the franchised business. cold stone creamery restaurants serve the general public and people of all ages consume the products offered by cold stone creamery restaurants. most cold stone creamery restaurants may be operated throughout the year however the restaurant market for the products offered by cold stone creamery restaurants is seasonal as consumption of ice cream cakes pies smoothies shakespeare specialty beverages and other frozen dessert products is typically higher in the summer and lower in the winter. you will have to compete with other restaurants fast food outlets supermarkets and other food retailers located in your venue or market area. some of your competitors may include cold stone creamery restaurants operated by other franchisees or by our affiliates. the extent to which you may succeed at any particular location cannot be predicted. because of the highly competitive nature of the business involved successful operation of the cold stone creamery restaurant will depend in part upon the best efforts capabilities management and efficient operation by the franchisee as well as the general economic trend and other local marketing conditions. you must comply with all federal state and local laws that regulate commerce in general and the food service industry in particular. in addition to laws and regulations that apply to businesses and restaurant operations generally cold stone creamery franchised businesses are subject to i federal state and local health codes regarding health sanitation and food safety and ii menu labeling and nutrition laws. item business experience references to titles and positions for the persons listed in this item may be assigned to mty mty canada mty united states of america usa or kahala brands or any one or more affiliated companies. chairman of the board and chief executive officer eric lefebvre mister lefebvre was promoted and became the chief executive officer of mty effective november. prior to that mister lefebvre was the chief financial officer of mty since june and was vice president of finance of mty from november until june. director chief financial officer renee street onge mississippi street onge was promoted to chief financial officer of mty effective november. prior to that mississippi street onge was with mty as controller since. director chief operating officer jeff smit mister smit has been the chief operating officer of kahala brands since june and has been a director of mty united states of america usa or since november. prior to that mister smit was the blimpie brand president from november until december and the sister vice president of operations for cold stone creamery from february to december. senior vice president of restaurant operations anthony crosby mister crosby joined kahala brands in october as the vice president of restaurant operations. he assumed his current role in august. vice president of restaurant operations blake borwick mister borwick was a cold stone creamery franchisee in cedar falls and waterloo iowa from april to march. from march of to january he was the regional director of operations of cold stone creamery and blimpie. he was promoted to vice president of operations for the blimpie brand in january and then became vice president of operations for the cold stone creamery brand in march. in may of he was promoted to vice president of restaurant operations for kahala brands. vice president of restaurant operations logan reves mister reves joined kahala brands in may in his current role. prior to joining kahala brands mister reves was an independent restaurant consultant from march through april. prior to that mister reves was with tilted kilt franchise operating llc in tempe arizona as vice president of operations from january to july chief operating officer from july through december and as senior vice president of franchise operations of the richard wings grill brand from january through march. general counsel jenny moody mississippi moody has been with the kahala brands legal department since june. in august she was named corporate counsel in september international counsel in september deputy general counsel and in november general counsel. vice president of training and customer service kerri kudla mississippi kudla joined the cold stone creamery training team in june. she became director of operations training development in january and was promoted to senior director of operations training development in october. in june mississippi kudla assumed her current role. senior vice president of marketing steven evans mister evans joined kahala brands in october as a national marketing manager for the blimpie brand. in october he also became the director of marketing for the nrgize lifestyle cafe and surf city squeeze brands and in january also the director of marketing for the tacotime brand. in march mister evans was promoted to senior director of marketing and in august he became the vice president of marketing. in january mister evans was promoted to his current role. franchise sales senior vice president of development john wuycheck mister wuycheck has served as kahala brands senior vice president of development since september. vice president of franchise development jay goldstein mister goldstein has worked with the cold stone creamery brand since october. in january he became the senior director of development for kahala franchising and from january until november he served as senior director of operations. mister goldstein was promoted to vice president of franchise development in may. director of franchise development doug merenda mister merenda joined kahala brands sales team in october as a director of franchise development and was a franchise broker for kahala brands from april through october. vice president of business development united states of america usa or ramin ray zandi mister zandi is the vice president of business development united states of america usa or a position he has held since february. franchise development manager traci zandi mississippi zandi has assisted kahala brands development team in awarding franchise units since october. she also served as office manager and executive assistant for extreme pita from april until october. item litigation litigation involving franchisor predecessors and affiliates concluded arbitration and litigation involving the extreme pita franchising united states of america usa or incorporated predecessor in interest to mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated purav enterprises llc balwant bahia and paramjit samra. the extreme pita franchising united states of america usa or incorporated epistle development incorporated and feisal ramjee superior court of the state of washington for king county case number on june purav enterprises llc balwant bahia and paramjit samra collectively plaintiffs filed a complaint against the extreme pita franchising united states of america usa or incorporated epistle development incorporated and feisal ramjee collectively defendants. plaintiffs alleged i violations under the franchise investment protection act in the state of washington fipa ii misrepresentation by the area developer of the financial performance of the franchise omissions of mandatory and material information and inherently misleading information that were material factors in the plaintiff purchase of the franchise and iii the area developer was not a registered broker in the state of washington. plaintiffs sought i rescission of the franchise agreement the corresponding personal guarantee and related agreements ii treble damages under fipa and iii costs and attorney fees. the parties entered into a settlement agreement on march in which defendants paid plaintiffs the sum of. the matter was dismissed on march. concluded state administrative actions arbitration and litigation involving sff llc successor in interest to sweetfrog enterprises llc in the matter of sweetfrog enterprises llc.a imagination enterprises incorporated a sweet frog administrative proceeding before the securities commissioner of maryland case number as a result of an inquiry into the franchise related activities of sweetfrog enterprises llc sfe the maryland securities commissioner commissioner concluded that grounds existed to allege that sfe violated the registration and disclosure provisions of the maryland franchise law in relation to the offer and sale of certain license agreements. sfe acknowledged that those license agreements constituted franchises as defined under the maryland franchise law. sfe represented that it entered into license agreements with eight maryland licensees during the time it was not registered to offer and sell franchises in maryland. on august the commissioner and sfe agreed to enter into a consent order whereby sfe without admitting or denying any violations of the law agreed to i immediately and permanently cease from the offer and sale of franchises in violation of the maryland franchise law ii file and diligently pursue an application for an initial franchise registration in maryland relating to the license agreements it offered and sold to maryland licensees and iii to offer to rescind the license agreements of all maryland licensees to whom it sold unregistered franchises. we are not aware of any licensees that accepted the rescission and have made a good faith effort to obtain that information. sun yop cho. imagination enterprises incorporated american arbitration association case number on may sun yop cho claimant a sweetfrog licensee filed an arbitration action against imagination enterprises incorporated predecessor to sweetfrog enterprises llc respondent. claimant asserted that i respondent breached the license agreement by violating the territorial exclusivity provision in the license agreement ii respondent violated the virginia retail franchising act and iii respondent breached an alleged oral promise to partner with claimant in developing a sweetfrog shop in leesburg virginia. claimant sought i damages in the amount of ii attorneys fees iii reformation of the license agreement and iv injunctive relief. respondent vehemently disputed claimant claims. on december claimant and respondent entered into an agreement pursuant to which i the parties settled their disputes and jointly dismissed the arbitration proceeding with prejudice and ii respondent repurchased claimant license agreement and acquired the assets of his sweetfrog shop for a total price of. sweet frog stony brook incorporated and sweet frog babylon incorporated sweetfrog enterprises llc sff llc and ki young cha a a derek cha united states district court eastern district of new york case number cove js wdw. on april sweet frog stony brook incorporated and sweet frog babylon incorporated collectively plaintiffs two sweetfrog franchisees filed a lawsuit against sweetfrog enterprises llc sff llc collectively franchisor and ki young cha a a derek cha collectively with franchisor defendants. plaintiffs alleged that defendants i violated the new york franchise sales act ii violated the new york general business law et seq. nyfsa by making unauthorized and fraudulent pre sale financial performance representations and iii failed to register the franchise offering with the new york attorney general prior to entering into franchise agreements with plaintiffs. plaintiffs demanded i damages in excess of ii rescission of their franchise agreements and iii recovery of their attorneys fees. defendants disputed plaintiffs claims but agreed to mediate the dispute. prior to the deadline to respond to the complaint on july the parties entered into an agreement pursuant to which i plaintiffs would attempt to sell their franchised shops and transfer their franchise agreements to any third party ies approved by franchisor before november and ii if plaintiffs were unable to identify a suitable buyer for their franchised shops by november the parties agreed to mutual termination of the franchise agreements and that franchisor would purchase the equipment from each franchised shop at a price of. the case was dismissed with prejudice on august. tri star consulting group incorporated and sweet frog hauppauge incorporated sweetfrog enterprises llc sff llc ki young cha a a derek cha united states district court eastern district of new york case number cove ads akt.on april tri star consulting group incorporated a licensee and area developer of sweetfrog enterprises llc plaintiff tri star and sweet frog hauppauge incorporated a licensee of sweetfrog enterprises llc plaintiff hauppauge collectively plaintiffs filed a lawsuit against sweetfrog enterprises llc defendant sweetfrog sff llc defendant sff and ki young cha a a derek cha collectively defendants. plaintiff tri star alleged defendant sweetfrog breached its license area development agreement with plaintiff tri star by i terminating the license area development agreement for nonpayment of royalty fees ii licensing to defendant sff the right to sell franchises in new york city plaintiff tri star development territory and iii failing to pay fees allegedly owed to plaintiff tri star related to the operation of franchised sweetfrog locations within plaintiff tri star development territory. plaintiff tri star sought i damages in excess of ii a declaration that it was not in default of the license area development agreement iii a declaration that defendant sweetfrog was obligated to pay fees to plaintiff tri star based on revenues of all franchised sweetfrog locations in new york city iv an order enjoining defendant sff from selling franchises in new york city and recovery of its attorneys fees. prior to the deadline to respond to the complaint on september plaintiff tri star and defendants entered into an agreement pursuant to which the parties agreed to mutual termination of plaintiff tri star license area development agreement defendant sweetfrog agreed to pay plaintiff tri star. defendant sff agreed to pay plaintiff tri star an ongoing commission equal to of the net sales of all franchised sweetfrog locations in new york city through november and plaintiff tri star agreed not to operate any competitive business in new york city for so long as defendant sff was obligated to make commission payments to plaintiff tri star. plaintiff hauppauge asserted that defendants i violated the new york franchise sales act ii violated the new york general business law et seq. nyfsa iii committed fraudulent and negligent representations by making unauthorized and fraudulent pre sale financial performance representations and iv failed to register the franchise offering with the new york attorney general prior to entering into franchise agreements with plaintiffs. plaintiff hauppauge sought i damages in excess of ii rescission of its license agreement and iii recovery of its attorneys fees. defendants disputed plaintiffs claims but agreed to mediate the dispute. prior to the deadline to respond to the complaint on september plaintiff hauppauge on the one hand and defendants on the other hand entered into an agreement pursuant to which i the parties agreed to mutual termination of plaintiff hauppauge license agreement and ii defendant sweetfrog agreed to pay plaintiff hauppauge. the case was dismissed with prejudice on september. urquieta sweet frog llc and ana urquieta. sweetfrog enterprises llc a sff llc american arbitration association case number on december urquieta sweet frog llc and ana urquieta a former sweetfrog franchisee and its owner collectively plaintiffs filed a demand for arbitration against sweetfrog enterprises llc defendant. plaintiffs alleged i defendant engaged in fraud ii unfair practices and iii deceptive actions. on february defendant timely filed an answer and counterclaim and denied all allegations and further asserted a counterclaim against plaintiffs for unpaid royalties. this matter was settled in december of. under the settlement defendant agreed to pay plaintiffs and the parties executed mutual releases. sff llc. carmel village yogurt company llc city of richmond virginia circuit court case number club on august sff llc plaintiff filed a lawsuit against three sweetfrog franchisee entities carmel village yogurt company llc defendant carmel yc huntersville yogurt company llc defendant huntersville yc and mooresville yogurt colorado llc defendant mooresville yc and their main member steve anto defendant anto all named defendants collectively referred to as anto defendants. plaintiff alleged i defendant carmel yc breached its franchise agreement through its unauthorized closure of its franchised shop and ii as a result of the breach plaintiff had the contractual right to terminate defendant carmel yc franchise agreement and cross terminate the franchise agreements of defendant huntersville yc and defendant mooresville yc. plaintiff sought i declaratory judgment that the three franchise agreements had terminated ii specific performance of the anto defendants post termination obligations iii damages for past due fees iv lost future royalties in excess of and recovery of its attorneys fees. in response to plaintiff complaint anto defendants denied plaintiff claims and asserted counterclaims against plaintiff and alleged i defendant carmel yc franchise agreement was unenforceable and alternatively that plaintiff was in breach of defendant carmel yc franchise agreement due to plaintiff allowance of another franchisee to open a shop within three miles of defendant carmel yc shop. anto defendants sought i a declaratory judgment that they were not in default of their franchise agreements ii damages of not less than and iii recovery of their attorneys fees. plaintiff denied anto defendants claims and filed a demurrer and pleas in bar seeking to have those claims dismissed. prior to the court hearing and ruling on plaintiff motion the parties entered into an agreement pursuant to which i the parties acknowledged the valid termination of defendant carmel yc franchise agreement ii defendant carmel yc transferred the assets of its business to plaintiff and plaintiff paid defendant carmel yc iii plaintiff reinstated defendant huntersville yc and defendant mooresville yc terminated franchise agreements and iv plaintiff granted defendant anto the right to develop a new sweetfrog shop at a mutually acceptable location on or before november. the case was dismissed with prejudice on december. concluded arbitration and litigation involving kahala franchising. koho incorporated kahala franchising. superior court of the state of california for the county of los angeles case number bc. on or about february koho incorporated koho filed a complaint against kahala franchising. kahala alleging i breach of contract ii unjust enrichment and iii declaratory relief. koho sought i no less than in special and general damages ii litigation costs iii prejudgment interest iv reasonable attorney fees and declaratory relief. on or about may kahala filed a cross complaint against koho heeyong kyle chung and hannah kim alleging i breach of contract ii unjust enrichment iii disgorgement and restitution iv fraud deceit and concealment negligent misrepresentation virgin islands conversion vii negligence and viii declaratory relief. kahala sought i breach of contract damages in amount according to proof ii disgorgement and restitution on unjust enrichment cause of action iii judicial determination that kahala is permitted and entitled to set off amounts owed to it by koho with funds in its possession which would otherwise have been due koho iv costs attorneys fees virgin islands punitive damages and vii prejudgment interest viii any other relief the court deems just and proper. on or about june koho filed a notice of hearing on demurrer and demurrer to kahala cross complaint memorandum of points and authorities declaration of daniel. hoffman and exhibits in support thereof. koho filed its notice of motion and motion to strike certain portions of kahala cross complaint memorandum of points and authorities on june. on october the court overruled koho demurrer to kahala cross complaint in its entirety and denied their motion to strike kahala punitive damages claims the court sustained the demurrer as to hannah kim. mediation was held on may which failed to yield a settlement between the two parties. on may kahala dismissed the claims against koho and kyle chung because they satisfied the debts owed to kahala and therefore the claims were moot. hannah kim was subsequently awarded attorney fees on june in the amount of. bench trial commenced on june and ended on june. upon the conclusion of koho case kahala presented its casein chief and moved for judgment pursuant to code of civil procedure section. the court granted kahala judgment as koho failed to establish the requisite elements of breach and damages on the three causes of action asserted in the complaint. on july the court awarded kahala attorneys fees in the amount of. on september koho filed a notice of filing of notice of appeal and requested that kahala participate in a mediation to resolve the outstanding award to kahala. koho failed to post an appeal bond. on february kahala commenced its self help pursuant to section i and of the ara and began withholding of the area representative fees to which koho would have otherwise been entitled. on june the parties entered into a settlement agreement whereby kahala repurchased koho area developer territory for the sum of and forgave the remaining damages owed in the amount of. texas nrgize incorporated kahala franchising. and kahala holdings. th judicial district court tarrant county texas civil action number subsequently removed to united states district court for the northern district of texas case number cove on or about june texas nrgize incorporated an nrgize franchisee plaintiff filed a petition and request for disclosure against kahala franchise corporation and kahala holdings. collectively defendants alleging i violations of the texas business opportunities act tex. bus. law commercial law code. and the texas deceptive trade practices consumer protection act tex. bus. law commercial law code. and ii breach of contract and warranties. plaintiff sought i economic damages in excess of plus treble damages and pre and post judgment interest at the maximum rates allowed by law ii attorneys fees and costs and iii such other relief to which the plaintiff may be justly entitled. on july defendants filed a notice of removal to the united states district court for the northern district of texas. on july the judge executed the order granting the unopposed motion to substitute parties and changing case style. kahala franchising. defendant was substituted in as a defendant instead of kahala franchise corporation on july defendant filed a motion to transfer pursuant to. and brief in support. this motion sought an order to transfer the litigation to the united states district court for the district of arizona pursuant to the parties forum selection clause contained in the franchise agreement. on august defendant filed its answer counterclaim and third party claim. the counterclaim was against plaintiff and the third party claim was filed against duane. martin argentina saldivar and margena wood third party defendants. defendant alleged i breach of franchise agreement against plaintiff and ii breach of guaranty against third party defendants. defendant sought i judgment against plaintiff and the third party defendants in an amount to be proven at trial ii attorneys fees iii costs pursuant to. and. and the parties contractual agreements and iv any other relief the court deemed fit. plaintiff filed its response to defendant motion to transfer pursuant to. and brief in support on august then filed its answer to defendant counterclaim on august. on august defendant filed its reply in support of motion to transfer pursuant to. and brief in support. on september the united states district court for the northern district of texas court requested that each party submit a supplemental brief to benefit the court in resolving the defendant motion to transfer. mediation was held on september but the parties failed to come to an agreement. on october third party defendants filed their answer and counterclaim. third party defendants alleged i violations of the texas business opportunities act tex. bus. law commercial law code. and the texas deceptive trade practices consumer protection act tex. bus. law commercial law code. and ii breach of contract and warranties. third party defendants sought i economic damages in excess of plus treble damages under the code and pre and post judgment interest at the maximum rates allowed by law ii attorney fees iii costs and iv any other general or special relief that the court deemed fit. on october defendant filed its supplemental briefing in support of its motion to transfer pursuant to. on november defendant filed its answer to the third party counterclaims. on november defendant filed its notice of dismissal without prejudice as to third party defendant argentina saldivar only. on november plaintiff filed its response to defendant supplemental briefing in support of their motion to transfer pursuant to. on november defendant filed its reply to plaintiff response to defendant supplemental briefing in support of its motion to transfer pursuant to. on february the court granted defendant motion to transfer the case to the united states district court of the district of arizona phoenix division case number cove phx dgc. in april plaintiff moved to compel arbitration which was ultimately denied by the court. the parties participated in a mediation in august which was unsuccessful. in december the parties executed a settlement agreement in which defendant paid plaintiff the sum of. the parties filed a stipulation to dismiss with prejudice on december. lawsuits filed by franchisor kahala franchising. against franchisees during fiscal year december through november suit for breach of contract franchise agreement open account and personal guaranty kahala franchising. hadi american subs llc and mohamad wajdi el hadi state of michigan in the wayne county circuit court case number cb. suit for breach of contract franchise agreement and personal guaranty kahala franchising. and kahala holdings. ay ray enterprise llc mohammed aiyaz ali and sofia ali in the circuit court of the state of oregon for the county of washington case number cove suit for breach of contract franchise agreement kahala franchising. mustafa shakruwala sakina shakruwala murtuza rajkotwala a a murtaza rajkotwala and alifiya rajkotwala a a alefiyah rajkotwala in the circuit court for the thirteenth judicial circuit in and for hillsbborough county florida case number california a hc. lawsuits filed by mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated against franchisees during fiscal year december through november suit for breach of contract franchise agreement personal guaranty the corbetts and unjust enrichment in the alternative mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated tebrock david. lawrence corbett and carolina corbett in the superior court of the state of arizona in and for the county of maricopa case number cove suit for breach of contract franchise agreement and personal guaranty mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated thanhson nguyen dinh thuy thanh tran and does through superior court of california county of sacramento gordon. schaber courthouse unlimited civil case number suit for unlawful detainer for failure to pay rent mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated trimurti management incorporated superior court of california county of los angeles case number vecv. concluded arbitration and litigation involving cold stone creamery incorporated kenneth. kirwin. cold stone creamery kahala corporation commonwealth of massachusetts plymouth superior court civil action number a subsequently removed to the united states district court of massachusetts case number cove on or about october kenneth. kirwin plaintiff filed a complaint in equity and demand for jury trial against kahala corporation inadvertently named as cold stone creamery kahala corporation defendant. the complaint alleged i promissory estoppel breach of contract breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing ii misrepresentation fraud and deceit violation of. chap. a iii unjust enrichment iv misrepresentation and deceit in violation of. chap. a and intentional infliction of emotional distress. plaintiff sought i judgment against defendant in an amount the court deemed appropriate ii interest iii costs of the action iv compensatory damages punitive damages virgin islands attorneys fees and vii court costs. on april defendant filed its notice of removal seeking removal to the united states district court for the district of massachusetts. on april defendant filed its motion to dismiss or transfer which plaintiff opposed in its filing of the april opposition to kahala corporation motion to dismiss. on may defendant filed its reply to plaintiff opposition to motion to dismiss. on may defendants filed a petition to compel arbitration against plaintiff in the united states district court for the district of arizona case number cove nvw. defendants sought a court order to compel plaintiff to arbitrate before the american arbitration association in phoenix arizona per the language of the franchise agreements. on june plaintiff executed a declaration with consent to relief requested agreeing to arbitrate before the american arbitration association in phoenix arizona. on june defendants filed a notice of voluntary dismissal against plaintiff as he had agreed to arbitrate all claims. mediation occurred on july and the parties arrived at a settlement in which defendants would pay plaintiff to settle all disputes. the settlement order of dismissal was filed on july in the united states district court district of massachusetts. gregory fowler and doubri enterprises. cold stone creamery incorporated state of rhode island kentish superior court case number kc subsequently removed to united states district court for the district of rhode island case number california cove pas subsequently removed to united states district court for the district of arizona case number phx pgr. on or about september gregory fowler and doubri enterprises llc collectively plaintiffs filed a complaint against cold stone creamery incorporated defendant. plaintiffs alleged i breach of sublease ii breach of franchise agreement iii breach of good faith and fair dealing iv tortious interference with contractual relationships fraud virgin islands defamation of business character and vii negligent infliction of emotional distress. plaintiffs sought i punitive damages ii attorneys fees iii interest and iv costs. on september defendant filed a notice of removal removing the lawsuit to the united states district court for the district of rhode island. on october defendant filed a motion to dismiss the complaint or alternatively to transfer the lawsuit to the united states district court for the district of arizona. the motion to transfer was granted on november and the matter was transferred to the arizona court. on december defendant filed its answer to the complaint. on march the court entered a scheduling order establishing dates for completion of discovery and pre trial motions and setting the matter down for trial on october. the parties participated in mediation and ultimately entered into a settlement agreement whereby defendant paid plaintiffs. cindy kilman joseph buck kilman and bcek. cold stone creamery incorporated american arbitration association case number lgb. on or about august cindy kilman joseph buck kilman and bcek. collectively claimants former cold stone creamery franchisees filed a demand for arbitration with the american arbitration association against cold stone creamery incorporated respondent. claimants alleged i intentional fraud fraudulent inducement ii negligent misrepresentations and omissions iii wrongful termination of four franchise agreements and subleases iv breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing breach of contract virgin islands violations of federal anti trust law including illegal tying claims and exclusive arrangements under the sherman act and clayton act vii violations of the arizona uniform state antitrust act. et seq. viii violations of the texas free enterprise and antitrust act of tex. bus. commission code annual tfeaa ix violations of arizona consumer fraud act. et seq. and violations of texas deceptive trade practices consumer protection act texas bus. law commercial law code annual et seq. claimants sought i damages in excess of which included their investment ii future profits iii future earnings iv interest costs and expenses of the arbitration proceeding virgin islands attorneys fees vii rescission of their four franchise agreements and subleases and viii declaratory relief that none of the kilmans bcek. cindy kilman or joseph buck kilman shall be responsible to cold stone creamery incorporated for contribution or otherwise relating to any rent or additional rent which cold stone creamery incorporated or any of its affiliates may owe or may have been adjudged to owe to any landlord in connection with any of the premises from which the kilmans or any one of them operated their cold stone franchises. claimants filed an amended demand for arbitration on or about february stating with more specificity the allegations of each alleged misrepresentation. respondent filed a response to the amended demand for arbitration and counterclaim in which it alleged breach of contract and sought a dismissal of all claims raised by claimants with prejudice and damages in the amount of plus reasonable attorneys fees and costs. the arbitration occurred in march with the american arbitration association. the arbitrator awarded claimants. on or about may. on or about may respondent filed a notice of appeal with the american arbitration association. on or about june the american arbitration association asked to set up a conference call to initiate the appeal. when as of june counsel for the claimants had not indicated any availability for or an agreement to participate in the conference call respondent appealed the decision to the arizona district court by filing a complaint case number cove alleging breach of contract. respondent sought an order compelling the claimants to submit to aaa jurisdiction for an appeal of the award reasonable attorneys fees and costs and any other relief the court deemed proper. on august respondent filed a motion to vacate and modify arbitration award in which it sought an order amending the arbitration award in favor of respondent in the amount of plus pre and post judgment interest or alternatively an order vacating the arbitration award and reasonable attorneys fees and costs incurred and such other relief as the court deemed just and proper. on or about september claimants filed a motion for temporary restraining order and preliminary injunction seeking the court to disallow respondent from any further activity in the appeal of the arbitration award and to disallow respondent from enforcing the appeal of arbitration provision in the franchise agreement. claimants filed an answer and counterclaims seeking an order confirming the final arbitration award a declaration that the appeal provision in the franchise agreement is unconscionable and injunctive relief. on september respondent filed a motion to stay its earlier filed petition to vacate and modify the arbitration award until the court ruled on the underlying merits of the complaint. on september claimants filed an amended answer to the complaint asserting counter claims against respondent. respondent filed a response to claimants motion seeking a temporary restraining order. on october claimants filed a response to respondent motion to stay. on october the united states district court of arizona order granted claimants motion for temporary restraining order and preliminary injunction as well as its cross motion seeking to confirm the arbitration award. the order further denied respondent motion to stay as well as its motion seeking to vacate and or modify the arbitration. following the october order claimants filed a motion for attorneys fees and non taxable expenses in the amount of. in may the court ordered respondent to pay claimants in fees. respondent appealed the united states district court of arizona order to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit in february and claimants cross appealed the may order. while the appeal was pending the parties continued to explore settlement discussions. in december the parties wished to settle all the issues and claims arising out of and or relating to the i aaa proceeding ii the district court action iii the aaa appeal proceeding and iv the court of appeals actions. respondent agreed to pay claimants in full satisfaction of the claims and attorneys fees along with in aaa fees. in exchange claimants agreed to release and forever discharge respondent from any and all claims related to or arising from the dispute. on january the united states district court executed an order that dismissed all claims and counter claims with prejudice with each party bearing its own costs and attorneys fees. concluded state administrative actions involving predecessor blimpie associates limited in may blimpie associates limited blimpie and joseph dornbush formerly the president of blimpie collectively respondents responded to a claim by the new york department of law that it had sold franchises during a period of time when blimpie prospectus had not been updated by amendment. without the admission of any wrongdoing respondents consented to the entry of an order in which respondents agreed i to entry of a judgment enjoining them from further violations of the new york franchise sales act and ii to pay the sum of to the state of new york as an additional allowance. respondents paid the in may and executed the consent judgment on august. concluded state administrative actions involving maui wowi franchising incorporated predecessor in interest to kahala franchising. in the matter of maui wowi franchising incorporated before the securities commissioner of maryland case number on november maui wowi franchising incorporated the predecessor franchisor of the maui wowi brand mwf entered into a consent order with the securities commissioner of maryland commissioner resulting from mwf inadvertently entering into four franchise agreements with maryland residents after its registration in maryland expired on june maryland franchisees. the consent order required mwf to cease and desist from the offer and sale of unregistered franchises in maryland to diligently pursue the completion of its then pending application to register its offering circular in maryland to develop and implement new franchise law compliance procedures to ensure future compliance with the registration and disclosure provisions of maryland franchise law and to enroll an officer and a franchise compliance person in a franchise law compliance training program. upon notification by the commissioner mwf sent to the maryland franchisees the registered offering circular a copy of the consent order and a letter notifying the maryland franchisees that they could rescind their franchise agreements. at this time mwf is in full compliance with the consent order. in the matter of maui wowi franchising incorporated before the securities commissioner of maryland case number on september mwf entered into a consent order with the maryland commissioner resulting from mwf inadvertently entering into two franchise agreements with two maryland residents second maryland franchisees without delivering to them the appropriate offering circular. mwf was registered in the state of maryland at the time of the offer and sale with an offering circular containing certain specific information required only by maryland law. at the same time mwf used a second form of offering circular in other states that did not contain all of the information required by maryland law. prior to the execution of the franchise agreements with the second maryland franchisees mwf accidentally delivered to them the offering circular that did not contain the maryland specific information. we subsequently reported these mistakes to the commissioner. the consent order required mwf to cease and desist from the offer and sale of franchises in maryland in violation of the maryland franchise law to diligently pursue the completion of its then pending application to register its offering circular in maryland to implement additional compliance measures to ensure future compliance with the maryland franchise law to employ an approved franchise law compliance training program or trainer to monitor mwf franchise activities in maryland for two years and to reimburse the maryland attorney general for its investigation and resolution costs in the total amount of. additionally mwf was required to provide to the second maryland franchisees the registered offering circular a copy of the consent order and a letter notifying the second maryland franchisees that they have a right to rescind their franchise agreements. the commissioner and mwf subsequently entered into an amended consent order in which mwf elected to withdraw from the state of maryland instead of employing a compliance monitor with the agreement to employ a monitor if mwf was to re register in the state of maryland. mwf fully complied with the amended consent order and subsequently employed a compliance monitor and was granted registration in the state of maryland. concluded state administrative actions arbitration and litigation involving bf acquisition holdings llc and or its predecessors state of maryland determination case number. in february the state of maryland alleged that during the period january to november triune llc triune i did not retain signed acknowledgements of receipt reflecting the dates that its franchise disclosure document was delivered to certain maryland residents and non residents ii sold franchises to certain maryland residents and non residents without providing them with a copy of a franchise disclosure document iii sold franchises to certain maryland residents and non residents without providing them with a copy of a franchise disclosure document that contained its financial statements with a going concern note from its auditors resulting from the unfavorable financial condition of its parent company and iv sold franchises to certain maryland residents and non residents without including or abiding with a deferral condition in their franchise agreements that was imposed upon it by the state of maryland all as required by the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law the maryland law and in violation of the maryland law. without admitting or denying the allegations in september triune voluntarily entered into a consent order with the office of the attorney general of maryland and agreed to i not violate the maryland law in the future ii pay the office of the attorney general the sum of as a civil penalty iii retain copies of all acknowledgments of receipt confirming dates that prospective maryland franchisees received any maryland franchise disclosure documents iv comply with the disclosure and antifraud provisions of the maryland franchise law and the record keeping and escrow requirements of the code of maryland regulations and send a copy of the consent order to certain maryland franchisees. state of virginia determination case number second in february the division of securities and retail franchising of the state corporation commission the commission alleged that during triune llc triune i offered or sold franchises in virginia in that were not registered under the virginia retail franchising act the virginia act ii offered or sold franchises in virginia without disclosing that it was not registered to do so iii failed to provide material information regarding the parent company unfavorable financial condition and the potential impact that it could have on triune as stated in a going concern note in its financial statements from its auditors and iv failed to provide a prospective franchisee with a copy of its franchise disclosure document as required by rule or order of the commission at least calendar days before the prospective franchisee signed a binding agreement or made any payment to it in connection with the sale or offer to sell a franchise in virginia. without admitting or denying the allegations on november triune voluntarily entered into a settlement order with the commission and agreed i to not violate the virginia act in the future ii to pay virginia the sum of as a penalty and the sum of to defray the commission costs of investigation iii to offer certain virginia franchisees a refund of their initial franchise fees and iv to send a copy of the settlement order to certain virginia franchisees. fresh enterprises. ledang investment group llc vincent tienn le ho tien le and hue this dang superior court of the state of california county of santa clara case number cove on july fresh enterprises as successor in interest to baja fresh westlake village incorporated plaintiff filed a complaint against ledang investment group llc vincent tien le ho tien le and hue thi dang collectively defendants ledang or cross claimants ledang for i implied indemnity ii equitable indemnity iii express indemnity iv breach of contract declaratory relief seeking unspecified damages virgin islands indemnification viii a judgment of unlawful detainer and ix declaration that defendants ladang were obligated to reimburse plaintiff for various expenses. on january cross claimants ledang filed a cross complaint against plaintiff baja fresh westlake village llc triune corporation and national franchise sales incorporated collectively counter defendants for i breach of contract ii breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing iii negligent misrepresentation and iv intentional misrepresentation. on february counter defendants filed a motion to compel arbitration which was granted. the disputes between the parties were then arbitrated before the american arbitration association case number. on february the arbitrator issued an award in favor of cross claimants ledang in the amount of. the parties entered into a settlement and release agreement on july under which counter defendants paid the cross claimants ledang the sum of and the matter was dismissed with prejudice. other than these actions no litigation is required to be disclosed in this item item bankruptcy no bankruptcy information is required to be disclosed in this item. item initial fees the initial franchise fee initial franchise fee for your first cold stone creamery traditional restaurant island the initial franchise fee is reduced for your second and each subsequent traditional restaurant to. the initial franchise fee for your non traditional cold stone creamery restaurant location ranges from to for each restaurant. if you are currently an active or active reserve member of the. armed forces have been honorably discharged from the. armed forces eligible military or are a organization you will receive a discount on the initial franchise fee. the initial fees to be paid to us and or our affiliate before the franchisee cold stone creamery business opens are indicated on the chart below and in the notes to the chart. the initial fees to be paid to us and or our affiliate before the franchisee business opens are the total of the initial franchise fee grand opening marketing lease review fee if any and a portion of the cost of equipment furniture millwork menu boards wall decor and smallwares which may or may not be paid to us and or our affiliate. and ranges from to for a non traditional location and from to for a traditional location. these amounts do not include the document administration fee. for the fiscal year the formula used to calculate the range of initial fees paid to us and or our affiliate before the franchisee business opened was the total of the initial franchise fee lease review fee if any and the cost of equipment furniture menu boards wall dcor and or smallwares purchased from neptune equipment. the factors that determined these amounts were i if the initial franchise fee was discounted or waived ii if the restaurant was traditional or non traditional iii if the restaurant was the franchisee first or subsequent traditional restaurant iv the lease review fee if the franchisee requested a full lease review the lease guarantee fee if the franchisee requested we guarantee their lease and kahala franchising or its affiliate agreed to be a guarantor on their lease and virgin islands the cost of equipment furniture menu boards wall dcor and smallwares purchased from our affiliate neptune equipment. there are no refunds of the initial franchise fee under any circumstances. we may periodically reduce the initial franchise fee in connection with limited time promotions new concepts and or operational programs. we may vary the terms of our franchises in connection with testing new marketing branding and or operational programs. these tests are generally conducted with experienced existing franchisees and may include incentives and other rights which are not available to all franchisees. if you sign the franchise agreement in connection with a transfer or renewal you will not pay the initial franchise fee. we may offer you the option to purchase a license to sell additional signature products in your cold stone creamery restaurant and to use the signature products trademark as signature products are developed. the signature products that would be available for cold stone creamery franchisees to sell in their restaurants are currently under development. we estimate that the fees associated with acquiring license to sell additional products will be between and although these license fees may be modified from time to time. category amount method of payment due date to whom pmt is made refundability initial franchise fee first traditional restaurant reduced to for eligible military and lump sum signing of the franchise agreement kahala franchising see note initial franchise fee second traditional restaurant and each afterward reduced to for eligible military and lump sum signing of the franchise agreement kahala franchising see note category amount method of payment due date to whom pmt is made refundability initial franchise fee non traditional restaurants note to reduced to to for eligible military and lump sum signing of the franchise agreement kahala franchising see note grand opening marketing for a traditional store and for a non traditional store lump sum earlier of prior to execution of a lease or prior to constructio of premise kahala franchising or its affiliate see note lease guarantee fee optional of the total amount guaranteed up to a maximum payment of if applicable note lump sum signing of the lease guarantee agreement if applicable kahala franchising or its affiliate who guarantees the lease see note lease review fee optional to note lump sum when you request review by kahala manageme new testament real estate department kahala franchising see note equipment interior and exterior signage menu boards millwork and or smallwares to note lump sum when invoiced neptune equipment see note notes there are no refunds under any circumstances. kahala franchising does not offer any financing of the initial franchise fee. we may periodically reduce the initial franchise fee in connection with limited time promotions new concepts and or operational programs. if after a request by you kahala franchising or any of its affiliates agree in their sole and absolute discretion to guarantee your lease with the applicable third party landlord for the cold stone creamery restaurant you are developing you will pay kahala franchising or its affiliate a lease guarantee fee in the amount of of the total amount of the rental obligations being guaranteed under the lease upon the execution of the lease and associated guarantee with the third party landlord up to a maximum payment of. this fee is not refundable see exhibit lease guaranty acknowledgement. if prior to executing the lease you request kahala management real estate department review your lease and provide suggested changes to you a lease review fee shall be paid by you to kahala franchising lease review fee upon your request to kahala management real estate department. the lease review fee is non refundable. this is an optional service with the determination of whether to utilize kahala management real estate department to be made in your sole discretion. certain of your equipment furniture menu boards millwork wall graphics and smallwares will be purchased from neptune equipment an affiliate of kahala franchising. item other fees column type of fee column amount column due date column remarks royalty fee and surcharge notes and of gross sales plus a maximum surcharge of per week note withdrawn electronically from your depository account weekly note gross sales include all revenue from your restaurant excluding sales tax and authorized refunds credits and allowances. advertising fees note of weekly gross sales same as royalty fee note the advertising fees are deposited as follows to the national fund and to the regional fund for your cooperative or your store note. additional persons training fee note per person per person hour week for the in store portion of the training program and per person for the new owner training portion of the training program weeks prior to beginning of training the training of two individuals is included in the initial franchise fee. the additional persons training fee is for any additional persons who attend the training program. additional training fee note per person per day prior to attendance payable if we require or you request additional training after attending the training program. column type of fee column amount column due date column remarks annual meeting registration fee notes and up to plus incidental costs to attend days prior to the meeting we will debit your depository account for this fee which is non refundable. this fee is charged to all franchisees whether or not they attend the meeting. depository account must be replenished on a regular basis signing of franchise agreement note charitable contributions to be determined by us as determined by us note data fees notes and up to per month subject to reasonable annual and or service enhancement increases same as royalty fee note begins immediately after you open your restaurant. pos help desk phone support maintenance contract fee up to per month last thursday of each month we will debit your depository account for this fee. gift card redemption fee of the amount of the gift card redemption note on or about the th day of each month fee is charged by us and collected by a third party on our behalf. renewal franchise fee traditional and non traditional note of the then current initial franchise fee not including any discounts or reductions signing of new franchise agreement at renewal applicable if you are renewing your franchise agreement. renewal term is five years. transfer franchise fee traditional location notes and prior to consummation of transfer payable if you are purchasing your franchised business as a result of a full transfer. full transfer is including but not limited to a transfer of or more ownership or control. transfer franchise fee non traditional restaurant notes and prior to consummation of transfer payable if you are purchasing your franchised business as a result of a full transfer. full transfer is including but not limited to a transfer of or more ownership or control. relocation fee note at signing of relocation amendment to franchise agreement payable if we approve the relocation of your store. column type of fee column amount column due date column remarks non participation fee per day if you fail or refuse to participate in any required national local regional seasonal promotional or other program initiative and campaign or in any new or modified product or service test or offering. upon failing or refusing to participate payable to us. document administration fee note as incurred applicable if an amendment must be prepared including for an affiliate transfer. default interest notes and plus interest at per month or maximum legal rate if less default rate. payable upon assessment payable on all overdue amounts. document late charge notes and per week or partial week payable upon assessment payable if any required financial statement report or other document is delinquent. draft draw charge note and per day as incurred payable to us. late charge of the unpaid amount or whichever is greater on royalties advertising payments and other amounts unpaid within days. as incurred payable to us. sublease late charge of the late or unpaid amount plus any late charges and interest incurred under the master lease as a result of the late payment where applicable. as incurred payable to our affiliate if you are subleasing your restaurant space from our affiliate. collection costs note all collection costs including but not limited to reasonable attorneys fees. payable upon assessment payable only if we are required to retain an attorney or collection agency to collect delinquent payments from you. we will also collect as damages any attorneys fees and costs incurred by us in defending claims that arise due to your actions as a cold stone creamery franchisee. column type of fee column amount column due date column remarks non sufficient funds fee note for each electronic funds transfer returned for non sufficient funds for each check or draft returned for non sufficient funds. payable upon assessment payable only if your electronic funds transfer from your depository account or any check you remit to us is returned for non sufficient funds. audit note cost of audit plus interest at default rate on underpayments or the maximum rate permissible by law note. payable upon assessment payable only if audit is caused by your failure to furnish reports or if audit reveals an understatement of fees or assessment of or more. early termination damages note the average monthly royalty and advertising fees paid for any consecutive month period within the preceding month period multiplied by the number of months remaining in the term of the franchise agreement and the product is divided by. days prior to the early closing of the restaurant you must provide us with days prior written notice of the termination of your franchise agreement. attorneys fees and costs will vary under the circumstances. as incurred payable to us. indemnification of us and or our affiliates for damages suffered or incurred for your actions or omissions including amounts paid on your behalf or to cure your breaches under the franchise agreement will vary under the circumstances. as incurred payable to us. damages for breach of non compete obligations under the franchise agreement will vary under the circumstances. as incurred payable to us column type of fee column amount column due date column remarks management fee of the franchised business gross sales in addition to the royalty fee and advertising fee plus our direct out of pocket costs and expenses. payable with royalty and advertising fee if we assume the management of your franchised business for any period of time. notes these fees are collected by kahala franchising are payable to kahala franchising and are non refundable. these fees are uniformly imposed by kahala franchising however kahala franchising in its sole discretion may reduce or waive a one time fee i transfer franchise fee renewal franchise fee et cetera or may waive or reduce an ongoing fee i royalty fee or advertising fees for a defined period of time. in our sole discretion we may charge in addition to the royalty fee a surcharge of up to per week if your restaurant is located in a state that imposes additional reporting requirements on a franchisor. currently new york is the only state that has imposed the additional reporting requirements. at the time you sign the franchise agreement you will set up a depository account of a minimum of with your local banking institution. you are required to maintain a minimum balance of in this account at all times. this will mean that you must replenish the depository account to after kahala franchising makes any withdrawals. pre authorized electronic funds transfer form by and payable to franchisor is attached as exhibit. kahala franchising directs that advertising fees be paid to us a national advertising fund national fund designated by us and or in our sole discretion to a designated approved regional advertising fund regional fund and together with the national fund the advertising fund or fundamental upon thirty days notice by us to you we may unilaterally increase the advertising fee from its current level not to exceed four percent of your weekly gross sales. we encourage the formation of franchisee cooperative advertising associations each a cooperative. if a cooperative is formed for your region you must financially contribute to the cooperative as required by us. failure to do so will be deemed a breach of the franchise agreement and you may also in franchisor sole discretion lose your right to vote on decisions the cooperative makes. the membership of the cooperative is defined by us according to your market area. if no cooperative exists where your restaurant is located your store will be considered a single store cooperative and you must contribute to the regional fund for your store. except in limited circumstances all cold stone creamery franchisees must contribute to the regional fund at the same rate which is currently of your weekly gross sales. in limited cases in our sole discretion for example certain international restaurants or non traditional restaurants such as airport or university locations that require different advertising support some stores may not be obligated to contribute to the fundamental for each of our company owned or affiliate owned restaurants it our policy that such restaurants make contributions to the fund at a rate equal to the lowest rate a franchisee is then required to contribute. company owned or affiliate owned restaurants have the same voting power as franchisee owned outlets. on our request you must assist in establishing a cooperative or in deciding how to allocate contributions we may make to the cooperative. we reserve the right to establish general standards concerning the operation of a cooperative to specify the advertising agencies a cooperative must retain and to designate advertising programs a cooperative must conduct. notwithstanding anything to the contrary no cooperative may make decisions or spend advertising contributions without our prior written approval. see exhibit franchise agreement section. if we hold an annual meeting meeting the meeting will be held at various locations throughout the united states and or online as we may designate in our sole discretion and may offer valuable continuing education programs. because the planning and funding of the meeting must be done well in advance and requires a substantial financial commitment we have the right to debit your depository account for the annual meeting registration fee up to at any time to days prior to the first day of the meeting. this fee is not refundable and will be debited from all franchisees accounts even if you do not attend the meeting. if you do not attend the meeting we will send to you one full set of the substantive materials that were presented at the meeting. you must participate in all programs of a charitable nature designated by us from time to time including the obligation to contribute a designated percentage of opening day sales or sales for other periods to a charity designated by you or us as we may elect. we may collect a weekly data polling fee for the collection of data from your restaurant sales for the pos system for your restaurant. currently the fee is up to per month and is subject to reasonable annual and or service enhancement increases. if you fail to deliver or provide to us or your area representative if applicable any statement report or other document or information required to be delivered for example sales reports certificates of insurance and financial statements by the applicable deadline you will be assessed a late charge per week or part thereof until that statement document or other information has been delivered or provided which amount may be increased by us from time to time. if you fail to provide us with any necessary information or documentation with respect to our practice of drawing drafts against your bank accounts you will be assessed a fee in the amount of per day. if you want to transfer the restaurant or the franchise or if you want to sell more than of the equity of your business you must first give us a right of first refusal at the same price offered by any bona fide buyer. before transfer we must approve any new franchisee transferee stockholder or assignee. the document administration fee in the amount of will be charged to you if an amendment to your franchise documents must be prepared. interest begins from the date of the underpayment. royalties may be increased to up to eighteen percent of gross sales with respect to any period during which franchisee is in breach or default of its his her obligations under this agreement. the royalties paid or owing to franchisor with respect to the period during which franchisee is in breach or default are referred to as breaching royalties. breaching royalties will be charged for a minimum fourteen day period regardless of the length of the actual breach or default. this fee may be increased to cover the potential of future increased costs affecting the gift card program such as increased production and shipping costs and costs of processing. if fees are to increase franchisees will receive day advanced notice. item estimated initial investment your estimated initial investment traditional cold stone creamery restaurant column type of expenditure column traditional low amount column traditional high amount column method of payment column when due column to whom payment is to be made initial franchise fee note lump sum at signing of franchise agreement us rent security deposit for months note as incurred prior to opening landlord travel and living expenses persons while training not including salaries if any for you and your employees as incurred as incurred airlines hotels car rental agency restaurants real estate note note note note note lease review fee lump sum when you request review by kahala management real estate department us architectural fees as incurred prior to opening licensed and approved architect leasehold improvements note as incurred prior to opening approved contractors and vendors exterior signage as incurred prior to opening approved sign company equipment note lump sum prior to opening approved vendors and suppliers column type of expenditure column traditional low amount column traditional high amount column method of payment column when due column to whom payment is to be made pci compliance costs as billed by third party vendor as billed by third party vendor approved vendor opening inventory note lump sum before opening vendors suppliers employee uniforms lump sum before opening vendors grand opening marketing advertising note lump sum earlier of prior to execution of a lease or prior to construction of premise us insurance premiums note lump sum before opening insurance carrier permits and licenses lump sum before opening governmental entities telephone and utility deposits and hookups note lump sum before opening utility companies computer training and food safety certification course as needed as incurred vendors suppliers miscellaneous note as incurred as incurred vendors et cetera depository account note lump sum must be replenished on a regular basis signing of franchise agreement your bank we have the right to withdraw from this account additional funds month initial period note as incurred as incurred us employees various third parties total note does not include real estate costs construction of the building or rent for the business location except for the initial security deposit. your estimated initial investment non traditional cold stone creamery restaurant column type of expenditure column low amount column high amount column method of payment column when due column to whom payment is to be made initial franchise fee note lump sum at signing of franchise agreement us rent security deposit for months note as incurred prior to opening landlord travel and living expenses persons while training not including salaries if any for you and your employees as incurred as incurred airlines hotels car rental agency restaurants real estate note note note note note lease review fee lump sum when you request review by kahala management real estate department us architectural fees as incurred prior to opening licensed design architect leasehold improvements note as incurred prior to opening approved contractors and vendors exterior signage as incurred prior to opening approved sign company equipment note lump sum prior to opening approved vendors and suppliers pci compliance costs as billed by third party vendor as billed by third party vendor approved vendor opening inventory note lump sum before opening vendors suppliers employee uniforms lump sum before opening vendors column type of expenditure column low amount column high amount column method of payment column when due column to whom payment is to be made grand opening marketing advertising note lump sum earlier of prior to execution of a lease or prior to construction of premise us insurance premiums note lump sum before opening insurance carrier permits and licenses lump sum before opening governmental entities telephone and utility deposits and hookups note lump sum before opening utility companies computer training and food safety certification course as needed as incurred vendors suppliers miscellaneous note as incurred as incurred vendors et cetera depository account note lump sum must be replenished on a regular basis signing of franchise agreement your bank we have the right to withdraw from this account additional funds month initial period note as incurred as incurred us employees various third parties total note does not include real estate costs construction of the building or rent for the business location except for the initial security deposit. notes the initial franchise fee includes the training fee for two individuals. if you do not own a suitable premises approved by us you must lease or purchase the premises for your cold stone creamery restaurant. if you decide to lease the premises the landlord will generally require a security deposit the amount of which generally ranges from one month of monthly rent to six months of monthly rent. the amount of your security deposit will vary according to your area the type of location enclosed mall strip center or free standing building and various other factors. lease security deposit may be non refundable and is paid directly to the landlord of the premises. if you decide to purchase land and construct your own building or buy an existing building you can expect to add the cost of the real estate and costs of building to the total investment. real estate costs vary considerably depending on fair market values in your area size condition and location of the premises and municipal requirements. the landlord may provide some leasehold improvements but if not they will be at your expense. the total amount of leasehold improvements for your cold stone creamery restaurant will vary greatly depending on the type of premises for your restaurant condition of the premises and what improvements you require. to avoid excessive construction costs it is strongly recommended that you choose contractors carefully by obtaining several competitive bids before construction begins. these estimates are based on constructing a square foot vanilla shell for a traditional location or a square foot vanilla shell for a non traditional location electrical requirements and hvac per site standards of the brand. this amount is based upon a national average for labor costs and does not include extensive renovations. construction costs also vary considerably depending on fair market values in your area size condition and location of the premises labor costs union versus non union and equipment requirements. there is a wide range of probable locations that a cold stone creamery restaurant could be in and therefore a wide range for the approximate size of the property and building. typical locations for a traditional restaurant are strip shopping centers lifestyle centers business centers regional centers malls or downtown areas that could range in size from square feet for a stand alone location to over one million square feet for a large regional shopping mall. typical locations for a non traditional restaurant are airports kiosks convenience stores malls stadiums entertainment pavilions amusement parks sports or entertainment venues train stations travel plazas toll roads cafeterias retail stores military bases hospitals hotels casinos and high school and college campuses. this amount includes estimated costs of furniture furnishings installations equipment trade fixtures and certain other items on the restaurant premises the amount and specific items of which will vary depending upon the location size and condition of a particular restaurant. you must purchase restaurant equipment for your restaurant from approved vendors according to our specifications. list of approved distributors for our approved vendors is maintained by our purchasing department and will be provided to you during the pre opening and or construction phase for your franchised business. updates will be provided to you as changes are made i additions and deletions to the list of approved distributors for our approved vendors. as with any retail business you will purchase inventory continuously as long as you operate your cold stone creamery restaurant. you are required to pay a grand opening marketing fee of for a traditional store or for a non traditional store payable to us on the earlier of i prior to you executing a lease for the premises where the franchised business will be located or ii prior to construction commencing at the premises where the franchised business will be located. we or our designated affiliate will create a marketing plan for i a grand opening event at your franchised business and ii the initial advertising of your franchised business and will work with you to obtain your input on the marketing plan. we or our designated affiliate will use the grand opening marketing fee to pay for the grand opening and initial advertising but may in our sole discretion reimburse you for some local store marketing expenses that you pay if you received our prior approval. the grand opening marketing fee should be used within six months of the opening of your franchised business to the public. however if a portion of the grand opening marketing fee is not used within those six months we may in our discretion spend the remaining portion of the grand opening marketing fee after six months from the opening of your franchised business to the public. initial premiums for commercial general liability insurance are subject to change due to market forces beyond either of our control. the cost of other coverages including workers compensation and employer liability coverage and your discretionary purchases varies widely. the telephone and utility deposits will generally be refundable in accordance with the terms fixed by the telephone company and the utility companies respectively. miscellaneous expenses include pre opening employee training payroll petty cash including cash register opening banks security system interior exterior landscaping sound system banking pre opening costs accountants lawyers office supplies fees and expenses of incorporation and initial pest control fee. at the time you sign the franchise agreement you will set up a depository account of with your local banking institution. you are required to maintain a minimum balance of in this account at all times. cash flow from your operations may not be adequate to cover operating and other costs during the initial phase of business. the range shown estimates your expenses during the first three months of operation. these expenses include payroll costs excluding any wage or salary paid to you other miscellaneous expenses and working capital. we cannot guarantee that you will not have additional expenses starting the business. your costs will depend on factors such as how closely you follow our methods and procedures your management skill experience and business acumen local economic conditions the local market for our product the prevailing wage rate competition and the sales level achieved during the initial period. the amount required for additional funds was formulated based upon our years of experience as a franchisor and our affiliate years of experience operating company restaurants in addition to information provided by other franchisees. your initial investment for a new cold stone creamery restaurant depends primarily upon the size configuration location who pays the costs to develop the real estate and or construction of the restaurant and the amount and terms of financing if any. the initial funds required must be estimated as most costs are not within our control and may change at frequent intervals. these estimated ranges are based on our experience and information provided by franchisees. item restrictions on sources of products and services except as stated in this item you have no obligation to purchase or lease goods services supplies fixtures equipment inventory or computer hardware relating to the establishment or operation of your cold stone creamery restaurant from us or from any of our designees. the franchise agreement requires that all food products ingredients equipment computer hardware and software furniture fixtures millwork dcor signs computer equipment supplies and other products services and materials which you will use in the operation of your restaurant meet our standards and be purchased only from approved distributors and suppliers. you may use any operational service providers such as exterminators refrigeration services companies refuse removal companies and similar service providers that you desire. if we organize a rollout for a new approved product or a new supplier of an approved product you will be required to purchase such approved product from our approved distributors of the approved supplier within days of notification from us. we are not an approved supplier of any products or services. kahala brands is not a supplier of any products or services. neptune equipment an affiliate of kahala franchising is currently one of the approved suppliers of certain equipment interior and exterior signage menu boards pos system and smallwares. you are required to purchase certain menu boards wall covering wall graphics and other items from neptune equipment. kahala management an affiliate of ours is currently the only approved service provider of phone support maintenance for the software and hardware of the pos system pos help desk phone support maintenance. you are required to purchase the phone support service from kahala management. kahala management is also an approved service provider of real estate services. for a fee kahala management will review your entire lease and exhibits and provide to you or your attorney its review of the entire lease and suggested changes to the lease. kahala management may in its sole discretion also assist you in locating a potential site for a franchisee upon request from a franchisee. you may but are not required to use kahala management for real estate services. we currently have other non affiliated approved suppliers of other equipment smallwares furniture pos systems beverage equipment sound systems and certain ingredients and other logoed items utilized in your cold stone creamery restaurant. none of our officers own an interest in any of the approved suppliers not affiliated with us. to become approved a supplier must demonstrate to our reasonable satisfaction it can meet all of our standards and has adequate capacity to supply franchisee quantity and delivery needs. we will provide you with a list of approved distributors of the approved suppliers for your market area during the pre opening and or construction phase for your franchised business. you can expect that the items you will purchase in accordance with our specifications will represent over of the total purchases you will make to begin operations and over of your annual operating expense for raw materials products and supplies. all requests for approving new or alternative suppliers must be submitted in writing by you and or the supplier to the purchasing department at kahala brands. each request will be reviewed in accordance with our then current procedures and the supplier must meet our then current requirements which may include that our representatives be allowed to inspect the facilities of the proposed supplier and that samples from the proposed supplier be delivered at no charge to us either to us or to our designee for testing. our criteria for approving suppliers is available to franchisees upon written request to the purchasing department. there is no cost to you for the inspection and tests of the proposed supplier. if approved in our sole reasonable discretion we will notify you and or the supplier in writing within days of our receipt of an approval request. you must not offer for sale or sell any of the proposed alternative supplier products until you receive our written approval of the proposed alternative supplier. we may at our option re inspect the facilities and products of any approved supplier and revoke its approval upon the supplier failure to meet any of our then current minimum standards and specifications. if you receive a written notice of revocation from us you must stop selling disapproved products and stop purchasing from the disapproved supplier. we will provide you with one set of our confidential ops package which may consist of the operations manual ops toolkit and related printed and electronic documents collectively the confidential manual. we provide all specifications and standards to you in the confidential manual which we may modify from time to time by providing you with rollout guides for limited time offers amendments modifications or supplemental inserts through notices or bulletins or by amending the confidential manual. list of approved distributors for our approved vendors is maintained by our purchasing department and will be provided to you during the pre opening and or construction phase for your franchised business. updates will be provided to you as changes are made i additions and deletions to the list of approved distributors for our approved vendors. we have negotiated special pricing arrangements or discounts with some of our suppliers. the arrangements may include special contract pricing volume discounts and specific discounts from regular wholesale prices. some or all of these discounts could be passed on to our franchisees in our sole discretion. we do not provide any other material special benefits to franchisees based on their purchase of particular approved supplies or their use of particular approved suppliers. we or our subsidiaries may also receive rebates and or allowances usually ranging between and from certain suppliers on purchases made by you and other franchisees. the rebates and or allowances are generally based upon a percentage of franchisee purchases will be included in our general revenue and may be used by us for salaries of personnel that assist franchisees by attempting to increase their sales maintaining the customer service hotline handling of inquiries and complaints from our franchisees customers tracking consumer service hotline trends product research and development franchisee crew training supply chain information management systems and a variety of ongoing programs including education marketing advertising and franchisee meetings seminars conventions conferences and events. these rebates are usually based on an amount per unit per case per gallon or per pound of product i properly specified and approved meat dairy products paper products smallwares beverages and apparel purchased. we may use rebate and allowance funds received from our suppliers to benefit the cold stone creamery system in our sole and absolute discretion. pursuant to the mergers as fully described in item the total revenues and expenses of kahala franchising and its subsidiaries and affiliates have been consolidated with mty united states of america usa or as reflected in the audited consolidated financial statements presented in this disclosure document. for the year ending november mty united states of america usa or and its subsidiaries as of such date derived revenues from the sales of products services and vendor allowances in the amount of which was approximately of mty united states of america usa or total consolidated recognized revenue in the amount of. various suppliers and vendors of mty united states of america usa or and its subsidiaries contribute marketing and other revenues to mty united states of america usa or and or its subsidiaries based upon system wide purchases from those suppliers and vendors. during our last fiscal year mty united states of america usa or and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis earned a total of of the from such vendors. additional miscellaneous revenues for example revenue from the sale of branded merchandise from certain corporate owned stores in the amount of were also received by mty united states of america usa or and its subsidiaries during the last fiscal year. subsidiary of mty united states of america usa or that earned revenue from purchases of equipment furniture menu boards interior and exterior signage wall dcor and smallwares made by us our franchisees and licensees is neptune equipment. neptune equipment provides the following services purchases your equipment from various approved manufacturers provides logistics services by arranging for bundled delivery to you and assists with warranty support of the equipment purchased. neptune equipment charges a markup on the equipment and a handling fee for its services. during our last fiscal year neptune equipment earned a total of of the from franchisee purchases. during our last fiscal year mty united states of america usa or on a consolidated basis with its subsidiaries earned revenue from pos help desk support maintenance services and the sale of pos equipment in a total amount of of the. the processing fees received by kahala management do not currently cover the costs of the gift card program. our leasing affiliates do not derive revenue as a result of their leasing activities. we may acquire certain used equipment and signage and offer it for sale to prospective or existing franchisees at a price that we believe to be equal to or less than the fair market value of that equipment and signage. if we make that offer to you you have the option of purchasing that equipment and signage from us or purchasing new equipment and signage from approved third parties. in addition we or our affiliate may offer to sell to prospective or existing franchisees an existing operational cold stone creamery restaurant including the equipment signage fixtures inventory and other items necessary to operate the restaurant at a price that we believe to be equal to or less than the fair market value of the restaurant. if we make that offer to you you have the option of purchasing the existing operational cold stone creamery restaurant or starting your own cold stone creamery restaurant. we have not arranged any purchasing or distribution cooperatives among our franchisees. we have a master beverage agreement with the coca cola company coke the coke agreement under which coke products are the only approved carbonated fountain soft drinks for your cold stone creamery restaurant. coke may pay allowances to you the advertising fund and or us based on coke products purchased. coke may also i subsidize or provide your financing for approved coke dispensing and ice making equipment your subsidy or financing will be offset by some or all of your allowances from coke ii service the coke dispensing equipment to be paid for out of your allowance if available and iii subsidize or provide your financing to us or third party service providers for certain promotional and advertising materials including menu panels your contribution subsidy or financing will be offset by some or all of your allowances from coke. your allowances and equipment support payments may be terminated if you or we do not comply with the coke agreement. coke and or we may also provide you or make available to you for purchase selected promotional and marketing materials which shall be paid for with all or a portion of your allowances earned from coke. we reserve the right to amend modify or terminate the coke agreement as we deem appropriate. you must at your own cost and expense use our designated and approved third party design architect as detailed in the confidential manual to prepare the initial design drawings for your franchised business. except for the design architect designated and approved by us no other architect may be used by you for the design of your restaurant. you must also at your own cost and expense retain a licensed architect of record to prepare the permitted construction set of drawings. you must purchase an interior and exterior sign package and menu panels in accordance with our specifications indicated in the confidential manual and related documents provided to all franchisees. in addition you must have your cold stone creamery restaurant be consistent in color design and style with the standards and specifications adopted and approved by us and as we may modify those standards periodically. you must maintain the appearance and atmosphere of your cold stone creamery restaurant and the equipment and premises used in connection with your cold stone creamery restaurant in accordance with the standards we may adopt from time to time. any variations in color design style appearance or atmosphere must be approved in writing by us. our current standards and specifications are included in our confidential manual. you are required to acquire from an approved supplier and exclusively use an approved cash register point of sale computer system and software during the operation of your cold stone creamery restaurant. the components and specifications of this system are specifically identified in the confidential manual. you shall also be required to own a personal computer or similar device that allows you to receive online orders and to send and receive mails with us and possibly a fax machine to allow communication with us. you are required to accept all approved debit and credit cards along with kahala franchising or its affiliate stored value gift cards loyalty cards frequency cards and any other similar kahala franchising or affiliate sponsored electronic card and or payment program collectively the gift loyalty card from consumers at your cold stone creamery restaurant. prior to the opening of your restaurant you will be required to acquire an approved debit credit and gift loyalty card processing system to use during the operation of your cold stone creamery restaurant. the components and specifications of this system are specifically identified in the confidential manual. additionally you must utilize our approved third party payment card processor as identified in the confidential manual for processing all such debit credit rewards and gift loyalty card transactions. you must utilize our approved mobile application appendix and online food ordering service including any third party delivery order integration and may not use any other store specific appendix or online ordering service. olo is a franchisor approved online ordering vendor as of this disclosure document issuance date. you may also utilize third party delivery services such as through doordash or through another provider of your choice unless we require you to use a specific third party ies and provided that if required and or if you choose to participate in such third party delivery services you may be required to utilize a point of sale integration directed by us. you must complete a food safety manager training program at your cost. we will accept your local county or state required program or any other nationally recognized food safety program. you must provide us with a copy of your certificate prior to attending our training program. we may from time to time provide referral incentives to franchisees employees and others for qualified referrals of prospective franchisees. we may from time to time pay membership fees to public quasi public and private service providers who refer potential franchisees from identified groups. veterans or military personnel planning to leave the service. we may vary the terms of our franchises in connection with testing new marketing branding research and development of new menu offerings and or operational programs. these tests are generally conducted with experienced existing franchisees and may include incentives and other rights which are not available to all franchisees. we reserve the right to sell some of the products associated with the cold stone creamery brand to different retail outlets such as grocery chains or membership based retailers. you may not maintain a world wide web site social media site an appendix application or otherwise maintain a presence or advertise on the internet or any other public computer network in connection with the franchised business without our prior written approval. although not bound to do so kahala franchising may conduct from time to time additional research and development with regard to its specifications and standards. the criteria for evaluating any changes in these specifications will be whether such changes in the specifications will improve quality be more efficient and have greater customer appeal thus enhancing the cold stone creamery brand name and image. you must obtain all insurance we require and obtain it from an insurer having an. best financial strength rating of viii or better. your insurance must i insure the particular franchisee listed on your franchise agreement ii name us and our parents subsidiaries affiliates directors officers and employees as additional insured iii contain a waiver by the insurance carrier of all subrogation rights against us and our affiliates for casualty losses iv provide that we will receive by an endorsement days prior written notice of cancellation and provide that failure by franchisee to comply with any term condition or provision of the contract or other conduct by franchisee will not void or otherwise affect the coverage afforded us. before you may open your cold stone creamery restaurant at the time you sign your lease annually at least days prior to renewal of your insurance coverage and at any other time upon our request you must provide a copy of your certificate of insurance to us which meets our requirements. our minimum insurance coverage requirements subject to change including to increase are below. you need to evaluate if your particular business will require greater coverage or other types of insurance. for example we strongly recommend that you consult with an insurance broker to discuss whether your particular lease situation requires and or should obtain additional common types of insurance including without limitation business interruption umbrella insurance and cyber liability data breach insurance coverage. such insurance may significantly increase your premiums but may also save you money in the long run. we make no representation that the minimum coverage that we specify will be sufficient for your business. you will pay your insurance premiums directly to your insurance broker or to the insurance company issuing the policy. type of coverage limits specifications general liability bodily injury property damage per occurrence aggregate building improvements and betterments of full replacement cost no coinsurance minimum of business personal property of full replacement cost no coinsurance special form or equivalent minimum of spoilage flood earthquake and volcanic eruption subject to territory limitations required if in a designated flood zone workers compensation and employer liability insurance as required by law employment practices liability insurance with franchisor defense coverage hired and non owned automobile liability combined single limit per type of coverage limits specifications accident you must always keep the required insurance coverage in force and you must comply with any changes we make periodically to our insurance requirements. upon days notice to you we may require you to increase and or otherwise change the minimum coverage of the insurance referred to above including to reflect identification of special risks changes in law or standards of liability higher damage awards or other relevant changes in circumstances. in the event you fail to obtain or maintain the required insurance coverage we reserve the right but are not obligated to obtain the required insurance on your behalf and charge the insurance premium to you. we want to ensure that our franchisees comply with their leases for the premises where their restaurants are located the limitations on their use of the approved location and their obligations to us. thus if you open and operate a restaurant one of our leasing affiliates may enter into a master lease for your restaurant and will then sublease it back to you using one of our approved sublease forms see exhibit sublease and guaranty of sublease franchisee pays rent directly to landlord and exhibit sublease and guaranty of sublease franchisor or its affiliate collects rent from franchisee and pays to landlord the preceding two subleases collectively known as exhibit sublease and guaranty of sublease. the sublease will contain substantially the same terms as the master lease. the term of the sublease will be for the entire term of the master lease less one day. you will sign the sublease at the time our leasing affiliate signs the master lease for the premises. you must provide all security deposits guaranties and other assurances the landlord of the premises requires. we or our leasing affiliate will try to negotiate favorable terms under the master lease but we cannot guarantee that the lease terms including but not limited to rent will be the most favorable terms available in the market. we encourage you to participate in the lease negotiation process with the assistance of your attorney. our attorneys represent us not you. we may at our option require you to enter into a lease for the restaurant premises directly with the landlord direct lease. you and your attorneys must negotiate the terms of the direct lease. we have no liability to you regarding the terms or negotiations of the direct lease. the direct lease for the premises is subject to our final approval. you and the landlord under the direct lease must sign our approved lease addendum see exhibit required lease terms. additionally if your selected franchised cold stone creamery restaurant is allowed to sell rmcf products in addition to the cold stone creamery product offering you must sign our approved rmcf lease addendum see exhibit rmcf required lease terms. if we require you to enter into a direct lease you must provide us with a copy of the direct lease and the lease addendum for our approval at least days before you sign the direct lease and you must provide us with a copy of the executed direct lease and lease addendum within days after signing. if you do not provide us with all of the required documents we will not approve your direct lease. non traditional restaurant will generally be located inside an existing primary business. as a result if you open and operate a non traditional restaurant there may not be a sublease between you and our leasing affiliate. if the circumstances make a sublease appropriate then you would sign a sublease with our leasing affiliate. you should carefully read the direct lease or the sublease and master lease and if applicable the sublicense agreement. the sublease provides that a default under your franchise agreement is a default under the sublease. it also provides that you will not raise any defense or counterclaim in any action we or our leasing affiliates commence other than a defense of payment. item franchisee obligations this table lists your principal obligations under the franchise and other agreements. it will help you find more detailed information about your obligations in these agreements and in other items of this disclosure document. obligation article or section in franchise agreement section in sublease disclosure document item a site selection and acquisition lease. and. preamble and. pre opening purchases and leases. and. not applicable and. site development and other pre opening requirements. and. and. initial and ongoing training. and. not applicable. opening. note not applicable and. fees and and. compliance with standards and policies confidential manual. and not applicable and. trademarks and proprietary information and not applicable and i restrictions on products services offered. and. and. warranty and customer service requirements no obligation imposed not applicable not applicable. territorial development and sales quotas no obligation imposed in franchise agreement not applicable. ongoing product service purchases. and. not applicable. maintenance appearance and remodeling requirements. and and. insurance. advertising. and not applicable and. indemnification. and. and and obligation article or section in franchise agreement section in sublease disclosure document item. owner participation management staffing. and. not applicable and. records and reports. and. and. inspections and audits. and. and and. transfer and. renewal. and. post termination obligations. not applicable. non competition covenants. not applicable and. dispute resolution. not applicable. other personal acceptance personal and spousal guarantees non disclosure and non competition. personal acceptance of sections. and. guaranty of franchise agreement and non disclosure and non competition agreement guaranty of sublease note not applicable for renewal franchise agreements. item financing we do not offer any direct or indirect financing or financing arrangement nor will we guaranty your obligations under any note or other obligation except potentially for the lease for your site or if you purchase a restaurant corporate owned as is by one of our affiliates and only in our sole and absolute discretion. if you are an individual and married your spouse must execute and deliver to us a guaranty of franchise agreement see exhibit guaranty of franchise agreement and a non disclosure and non competition agreement see exhibit non disclosure and non competition agreement at the same time that you sign the franchise agreement unless your spouse is also signing the agreement as an individual. if you are a corporation limited liability company or other business entity each of your shareholders members or other owners and their respective spouses if married must execute and deliver to us a guaranty of franchise agreement and their respective spouses must execute and deliver to us a non disclosure and non competition agreement at the same time that you sign this agreement. in the event any person who has not previously signed a guaranty of franchise agreement or a non disclosure and non competition agreement becomes your spouse or the holder of any class of your stock or ownership interests or a spouse of such holder at any time after the execution of such agreement you must cause such person to immediately execute and deliver a guaranty of franchise agreement and a non disclosure and non competition agreement to us as appropriate. if in order to obtain the lease agreement for the site of your cold stone creamery restaurant the landlord requires you to obtain a third party lease guarantee and we or one of our affiliates agrees to serve as such guarantor with such determination to be made in our sole and absolute discretion you will pay to us a lease guarantee fee in the amount of of the total amount of the rental obligations being guaranteed under the lease during its term up to a maximum payment of. if the franchisee is an individual the individual franchisee and his her spouse if married must personally guarantee the debt. if the franchisee is a corporation limited liability company partnership or other entity each of the principals of the entity and each of their respective spouses if married must personally guarantee the debt. once paid the lease guarantee fee is non refundable under all circumstances. we do not offer financing for the lease guarantee fee as it is payable in full upon the execution of the guarantee. neither we nor any of our affiliates are required to serve as a guarantor of your lease for the site of your restaurant. the decision of whether to serve as a guarantor of your lease shall be made at our sole and absolute discretion. if you purchase a corporate restaurant as is that is owned and operated by one of our affiliates we may finance up to of the purchase price at our sole discretion. when you purchase a corporate owned restaurant from one of our affiliates you will enter into an asset purchase agreement see exhibit. if you finance any portion of the purchase price of the corporate owned restaurant through kahala holdings or kahala restaurants you will also enter into a promissory note and security agreement and a guaranty which are exhibits to the asset purchase agreement. the purchase price may include the initial franchise fee any transferrable furniture fixtures and equipment the leasehold and or any transferable leasehold improvements that are located in the restaurant at the time of purchase along with any inventory that is in the restaurant at the time of purchase. the lender providing the financing is one of our affiliates kahala holdings or kahala restaurants whichever entity owns the restaurant. the annual rate of interest charged will be between and and will depend on the creditworthiness of the franchisee the amount being financed and the dollar amount being paid up front by the franchisee. there are no finance charges associated with the promissory note and security agreement. the amount being financed will be required to be re paid in equal monthly installments and the period of repayment will be between months and months depending on the amount being financed. the security interest required by us is a first position lien on all equipment. if the franchisee is an individual the individual franchisee and his her spouse if married must personally guarantee the debt. if the franchisee is a corporation limited liability company partnership or other entity each of the principals of the entity and their respective spouses if married must personally guarantee the debt. the promissory note and security agreement may be pre paid in full or in part at any time and from time to time without penalty. the franchisee potential liabilities upon default include i an accelerated obligation to pay the entire amount due including but not limited to all accrued and unpaid interest if the default is not cured within seven calendar days and the interest rate will be increased to an annual rate of ii obligation to pay costs and attorneys fees incurred in collecting the debt iii termination of the franchise and iv liabilities from cross defaults resulting from non payment or from the loss of business property on franchisee other restaurants named in the promissory note and security agreement and granting either kahala holdings or kahala restaurants the right to take back the restaurant. the promissory note and security agreement requires franchisees to waive the following legal rights demand notice diligence protest presentment for payment and notice of extension dishonor protest demand and nonpayment of the promissory note any release or discharge by reason of any release or substitution of or other change in any security given for the indebtedness or the obligation of any person or entity who may become directly or indirectly liable for the note or any extension or other modification of the note and rights to contest or appeal our exercise of the take back rights and not receiving compensation for the restaurant after the take back rights have been exercised. the promissory note and security agreement also bars the franchisee right to contest the take back rights. we require a first lien position in all equipment as a security interest to be given by the franchisee. we do not intend to sell assign or discount to a third party any financing arrangement. we do not arrange financing from other sources therefore we do not receive direct or indirect payments from placing financing. the lease for a corporate restaurant is entered into by one of our affiliates. when you purchase the corporate restaurant you will enter into a sublease with our affiliate using our standard form of sublease where you pay all monies owing under the master lease directly to the property owner or our standard form of sublease in which you pay all monies owing under the master lease to our affiliate and the affiliate will pay the property owner which are exhibits to the asset purchase agreement. the sublease will contain substantially the same terms as the master lease. the term of the sublease will be for the entire term of the master lease less one day. if you are an individual you and your spouse if married must sign the guaranty of sublease see exhibit guaranty of sublease. if you are a corporation limited liability company partnership or other business entity each of your shareholders members partners or other owners and their respective spouses if married must sign the guaranty of sublease. we will within days after we receive the proposed master lease and additional materials required by us review the master lease to make sure it meets our minimum site requirements. upon submission of a proposed master lease you must provide us with any additional documentation and information that we may require regarding the proposed site the proposed lease your financial condition and your principals financial condition. if we determine that you do not have the financial capacity to perform your obligations with respect to the site or the master lease we may deny approval of the site and or master lease. that disapproval will be deemed to be reasonable. in that event we or our affiliates or franchisees may operate a cold stone creamery restaurant at that site. we or our affiliates may in our sole discretion lease the site approved by us for your cold stone creamery restaurant and sublease the site to you. in addition if and when you sign the sublease you must pay to us an amount equal to two months base rent under the master lease plus a security deposit in an amount equal to the security deposit required under the master lease. we reserve the right however to require a greater security deposit based upon your creditworthiness. please note if you intend to lease the site of your restaurant the lease must include certain required provisions see exhibit required lease terms exhibit franchise agreement new section. exhibit franchise agreement renewal section. exhibit franchise agreement transfer section. all the preceding three franchise agreements collectively known as exhibit franchise agreement. item franchisor assistance advertising computer systems and training except as disclosed below kahala franchising is not required to provide you with any assistance. if your franchised business will be located in an area that is subject to an area representative agreement the area representative in that area may be responsible for providing to you some or all of the services required to be provided by us other than new owner training. however area representatives are not authorized to make promises or agreements on our behalf or to agree to modifications to your franchise agreement or other agreements relating to your franchised business. pre opening assistance before you open your business we will provide the following assistance to you site selection. you will either i lease or purchase the premises for your cold stone creamery restaurant directly from a third party or ii one of our leasing affiliates will lease or license the premises where you will locate your restaurant and will provide you with a sublease or sublicense of the premises as applicable. you must select and we must approve an acceptable location that you open within one year after the effective date of the franchise agreement. the lease or purchase agreement will be subject to our prior approval and you must provide us with a copy of the lease or purchase agreement at least days prior to execution. we will notify you if we do not approve the site within days of receiving your site selection information. we will not unreasonably withhold our approval of the location. the location must be within a geographic area identified in section. of the franchise agreement. the factors that we will consider in approving your proposed location include among other things occupancy costs proximity to major retail activity and other cold stone creamery restaurants sign visibility traffic volume and speeds parking availability neighborhood economic profile population density accessibility competition and other tenants in the shopping center mall or applicable retail structure. if you cannot secure a location acceptable to us and open it within one year after the effective date of the franchise agreement we may terminate your franchise agreement after giving you written notice see exhibit franchise agreement new section. the decision to establish and operate your cold stone creamery restaurant at the location will be made solely by you without any reliance upon any information provided if any recommendation made if any or approval given if any by us any area representative or any of our or their respective shareholders directors officers employees representatives agents or affiliates. you must purchase or lease your business location from independent third parties. if you intend to lease your business location the lease must include certain required provisions see exhibit required lease terms exhibit franchise agreementsection. if we determine that you do not have the financial capacity to perform your obligations with respect to the location or the master lease we may deny approval of the location and or master lease. our disapproval will be deemed to be reasonable. in that event we or our affiliates or franchisees may operate a cold stone creamery restaurant at that site. construction and furnishings. we will provide you with a copy of the design drawings which is the detailed plans and specifications including landscaping and parking space if applicable for your franchised business upon our approval of the plans. you must hire and use at your sole cost and expense our designated and approved third party architect see exhibit franchise agreementsection. you are solely responsible for conforming the premises to all codes and ordinances including the americans with disabilities act the ada and obtaining all required permits. you are solely responsible for constructing or remodeling and decorating the location to our system standards and subject to our approval. we do not provide assistance with conforming the premises to codes and ordinances including the ada obtaining permits or constructing remodeling or decorating your restaurant. you must provide us with one copy of the plans for your restaurant within days after selection of the site. we will then have days to approve or disapprove of the plans. we must approve any and all changes or revisions to the plans required for your site before you begin construction. our approval of the plans is solely for complying with our system standards and not for determining compliance with codes ordinances the ada or any lease specific requirements. we will identify the furnishings fixtures and equipment including cash registers point of sale systems and computer hardware and software signs products materials and supplies necessary or authorized for the restaurant to begin operation see exhibit franchise agreementsections. and. we will provide you with all standards of operation that you must use or satisfy before you open the restaurant see exhibit franchise agreementsections. and. we will provide you with the names and contact information of any distributors and or suppliers you are required or authorized to use to supply you with products or services complying with our standards and specifications. the names and contact information of the approved distributors and suppliers and the written specifications for the approved equipment signs fixtures opening inventory and supplies will be provided to you during the pre opening and or construction phase for your franchised business. updates will be provided to you as changes are made i additions and deletions to the list of approved distributors for our approved suppliers. we do not deliver or install any of these approved items see exhibit franchise agreementsection. confidential operations manual we will provide you as part of the confidential manual an electronic or print version of the operations manual with operating procedures to assist you in complying with our standard methods of controls production methods and with policies procedures and resources to support brand consistency and compliance. the operations manual is collectively pages. the operations manual is confidential and remains our property. we may modify the operations manual as and when we desire but no modification will materially alter your status and rights under the franchise agreement see exhibit franchise agreementsection. the table of contents of the operations manual is attached to this disclosure document as exhibit. time to open the typical length of time between the earlier of the signing of the franchise agreement or the first payment of consideration for the franchise and the opening of the franchised business is to months for both a traditional and non traditional cold stone creamery restaurant. the factors that may affect this time are lease or purchase negotiations zoning procedures financing applications local ordinances and approvals obtaining licenses and permits construction delays weather conditions shortages delayed installation of equipment fixtures and signs development or construction not in accordance with our requirements labor disputes acts of god and other reasons. training. we will make a training program available to you and your designated representative after you sign the franchise agreement. the following table indicates the general subject matter the number of hours of classroom training and the number of hours of on the job training for each subject to be covered during the training program and the location of the training. our instructors have been adequately trained in the ownership and operation of a cold stone creamery franchise including having at a minimum completed the entire cold stone creamery training program and having experience in training each of the subjects listed in the table below with some trainers having five years experience or more in training each of the subjects. other personnel involved with on the job training of franchisees are regional directors of operation all who have more than one year experience with on the job training. during the classroom portion of the training program new owner training will be taught using the following instructional materials manuals videos and tests. you and anyone taking in store training including employees of franchisees must sign the in store training release and waiver of liability agreement see exhibit. in store training will be taught in a cold stone creamery restaurant using the following instructional materials manuals job aids and tests. certain portions of the entire training program may be adjusted as necessary as determined by us and based upon your skill sets. further substitute instructors may present certain portions of the training program. training program column subject column hours of classroom training column hours of on the job training column location new owner training online ktec kahala training education center in scottsdale arizona or at such other location designated by us in store training training store in arizona or such other location designated by us. the training of two individuals is included in the initial franchise fee. you or another partner shareholder or member of your business organization must have successfully completed our training program to our satisfaction. your manager at your sole discretion may be one of the two individuals you bring to training or you may bring your manager in addition to the two individuals and pay the additional persons training fee. you and your restaurant managers must be able to read and write english adequately in our good faith opinion to satisfactorily complete our training program and to communicate with employees customers and suppliers. notwithstanding the foregoing franchisor has the right to require franchisee and or its managers to attend additional in store training in the event franchisee is not operating the franchised business pursuant to franchisor systems standards. please note at our sole discretion the training program for a non traditional cold stone creamery may differ slightly from the training program outlined above see exhibit amendment to franchise agreement for non traditional locations excluding those colorado branded with another affiliated brand exhibit amendment to franchise agreement for colorado branded non traditional locations. the classroom portion of the training program will be held online from ktec which is located at our corporate offices in scottsdale arizona or at such other location as we designate in our sole discretion and the in store portion of the training program will be held at one of our affiliated restaurants in the metropolitan phoenix arizona area or at such other location as we may designate in our sole discretion. you will need to arrange for transportation such as flights and car rental food and lodging for you and your designated attendee. the costs you incur will depend on factors such as the distance you must travel the type of accommodations you choose and the time of year you attend training the estimated cost for travel and living expenses for two persons while training not including salaries if any ranges from to see exhibit franchise agreementsections. and. you must complete the training program no more than three months and no less than one day prior to the opening of your cold stone creamery restaurant. the new owner training will be conducted once a month. the in store training portions of the training program is scheduled as needed and determined by the franchisor. kahala franchising does not currently require you to attend additional training courses or refresher courses. however if you would like additional training after completing the training program we will provide additional training to you at a cost of per person per day. notwithstanding the foregoing franchisor has the right to require franchisee and or its managers to attend additional in store training in the event franchisee is not operating the franchised business pursuant to franchisor systems standards. in addition to the training program you must ensure that all of your employees are trained in cold stone creamery restaurant procedures. you are solely responsible for hiring and training your employees. you must also ensure that the manager and all employees whose duties include customer service are able to speak and read english and any other language that may be required to adequately meet the public needs in your restaurant. we believe training is important to the success of the cold stone creamery system and from time to time we may offer informal training sessions to franchisees. we believe it is in your best interest to attend any such training sessions. we will provide one of our representatives to come to your restaurant during opening week for up to five days at our expense to work with you and your manager on your grand opening and on operating and marketing your restaurant. we may in the future hold refresher or additional training programs conferences and seminars. your attendance at these programs is mandatory. to help us defray the cost of sponsoring these programs there may be a nominal registration fee and you will also be required to pay the cost of transportation food lodging and other personal expenses of your attendance and those of your personnel at any such program. these programs will be held at locations within the united states that we will specify in our sole discretion see exhibit franchise agreementsection. post opening assistance during the operation of the franchised business. if you are opening a new restaurant we or our designated affiliate will create a marketing plan for i a grand opening event and ii the initial advertising of your franchised business and will work with you to obtain your input on the marketing plan. see exhibit franchise agreement sections. and. we will maintain a continuing advisory relationship with you including consulting with you in marketing merchandising and general business operations which may help you in improving and developing your restaurant see exhibit franchise agreement sections. we will provide you with information on our operating and other standards for your restaurant. we may modify these as and when we desire see exhibit franchise agreement sections. we will continue our efforts to maintain high and uniform standards of quality cleanliness appearance and service at all restaurants in the system including making periodic inspections and quality service checks of your restaurant see exhibit franchise agreement section. and. we may make you aware of software available for purchase from an approved third party vendor to assist you in administrative bookkeeping accounting and inventory control procedures see exhibit franchise agreement section. we must review substitute locations for your restaurant and you must obtain our prior approval if you desire to relocate your restaurant. see exhibit franchise agreement section. we may offer you the option for a one time renewal of your franchise agreement prior to its expiration for a maximum term of five years if you meet our requirements. upon renewal you must execute our form of franchise agreement being used at the time of your renewal and pay us the applicable renewal franchise fee see exhibit franchise agreement new article exhibit franchise agreement transfer. optional assistance. upon your request we will reasonably assist you or provide recommendations regarding establishing pricing for the products you sell in your restaurant however the ultimate decision on the prices you charge is yours. we will not establish the prices for you. upon your request we will reasonably assist you in resolving operating problems you may encounter. advertising. we or at our election a third party that may be an affiliate of ours will establish and administer the fund that will include your advertising fees and those of other franchise owners in the system in accordance with the franchise agreement. the advertising fee which is currently three percent of your weekly gross sales see exhibit franchise agreement section. shall be due and payable with the royalty fee see exhibit franchise agreement section. except in limited circumstances as described below all cold stone creamery franchisees must contribute to the fund at the same rate which is currently two percent of your weekly gross sales to the national fundamental if your restaurant is located in a cooperative you must also contribute an additional one percent of your weekly gross sales to your regional fund for your cooperative if no cooperative exists where your franchised business is located your franchised business will be considered a single store cooperative and you must contribute the remaining one percent of your gross sales to the regional fund for your franchised business. in limited cases in our sole discretion for example certain international restaurants or non traditional restaurants such as airport or university locations that require different advertising support some franchisees may not be obligated to contribute to the fundamental for each of our company owned or affiliate owned restaurants it our policy that such restaurants make contributions to the fund at a rate equal to the lowest rate a franchisee is then required to contribute. if an affiliate of ours administers the fund or places advertising in connection with the system such affiliate may be paid a fee that will not exceed the fee that would be payable to unrelated third parties for comparable services. unless required by applicable law we will have no obligation to create a trust account escrow account or other special account for the fund and the monies comprising the fund may be placed in our general account if we desire. we may also reserve portions of the fund for use in a subsequent year. the fund is not audited and the financial statements for the fund and accounting of the fund are not available to franchisees. the fund will be used for marketing advertising production and media expenses to promote the cold stone creamery name system products and services. the fund may be used to pay any and all costs of maintaining administering directing and preparing advertising including the cost of preparing and conducting television radio magazine digital and newspaper advertising campaigns and other public relations activities employing advertising agencies to assist in such campaigns or other activities and providing promotional brochures and other marketing materials to franchise owners. we are entitled to receive the following from the fund reimbursement of our expenses overhead and employee salaries for services materials supplies facilities equipment or capital provided to the fund and rent for office space provided to the fundamental advertising funds not spent in the fiscal year in which they accrue are rolled over to the next fiscal year. we have no fiduciary responsibility to you on our management of the fund and no obligation to you to spend the fund in your market area and or in your cooperative area if applicable. we or our designee will direct all advertising programs to be undertaken through the use of the fundamental we will have sole discretion over all creative concepts materials and media used in such programs and the placement and allocation of such programs. advertisements generally will be in print digital and broadcast media initially with local coverage. we are not required to use any specific amounts from the fund in your market. however we in our sole discretion may use some amounts contributed by you to any approved regional fund if any in the same geographic area in which your restaurant is located. we may use an outside advertising agency to create and place advertising. the fund will be used to create new marketing material and promote the products and services offered by cold stone creamery restaurants. advertising fund expenditures during our most recent fiscal year ending november fell into the following categories production. media placement. administrative. other. total the other expenses included public relations research concept development and communications. none of the fund was used for the solicitation of franchises. unless your cold stone creamery restaurant is located in an enclosed shopping mall or other enclosed structure identified in section. of the franchise agreement you will be required to insert a regular white pages listing and a classified yellow pages telephone directory advertisement in the main telephone directories serving the geographical area in which the restaurant is located or you must participate in a multiple insertion in the event there is more than one franchise owner in such area. in either case the telephone directory advertisement must be approved by us in advance see exhibit franchise agreement section. in addition to contributions to the fund and the telephone directory advertisements if applicable described above we strongly recommend that you spend not less than of your monthly gross sales on local advertising see exhibit franchise agreementsections. and. all advertising by you in any medium must be conducted in a professional manner must conform to the standards and requirements in our confidential manual and must display our proprietary marks only in those forms approved by us. we may make available to you from time to time approved advertising promotional plans and materials for purchase see exhibit franchise agreementsections. and. you may not maintain a website software application an appendix application social media account including but not limited to an account group or page on facebook flickr foursquare google instagram linkedin pinterest snapchat tumblr twitter youtube vine vkontakte or weibo or otherwise maintain a presence or advertise on the internet or any other public computer network in connection with your restaurant without our prior written approval see exhibit franchise agreement section. we will not prevent the formation of franchisee cooperatives. we encourage our franchisees to form and operate cooperatives. each cooperative will coordinate advertising and marketing efforts and programs and will attempt to maximize the efficient use of local advertising media. if a cooperative is formed for your region you must financially contribute to the cooperative as required by us. failure to do so will be deemed a breach of the franchise agreement and you may also in franchisor sole discretion lose your right to vote as to cooperative matters. the membership of the cooperative is defined by us according to your market area. we are responsible for administering the cooperative. we may prepare for each cooperative a statement on the use of advertising collections and expenditures. we reserve the right at any time in our sole discretion to form change dissolve or merge cooperatives. see exhibit franchise agreement section. we may contribute sums from the fund to a cooperative. on our request you must assist in establishing a cooperative and in deciding how to allocate contributions from the fund to your cooperative. we reserve the right to establish general standards concerning the operation of a cooperative advertising agencies the cooperative retains and advertising programs the cooperative conducts. notwithstanding anything to the contrary no cooperative decisions will be made or advertising collections spent without our prior written approval. see exhibit franchise agreement section. we are not under any circumstances obligated to contribute any advertising collections to any regional or national advertising account fund program association or other organization. we are not required to spend any advertising collections on advertising in the area where your restaurant is located. we carry forward any advertising collections not spent in a fiscal year and spend them in the next fiscal year. computer system. we require you to exclusively use an approved electronic point of sale system to record all your sales during the operation of your restaurant the components of which are identified in the confidential manual pos system. prior to the opening of your restaurant you will be required to acquire and to exclusively use an approved cash register computer system pos system during the operation of the franchised business. we require that the manufacturer or its authorized representative on an ongoing basis service the pos system at your cost. you will be required to maintain the pos system in good working order at all times and to upgrade or update the pos system during the term of your franchise agreement as we may require from time to time. there are no contractual limitations on the frequency or cost for the franchisee to upgrade or update the pos system during the term of the franchise agreement. it will be your responsibility to enter into contracts for the maintenance upgrades and updates to the pos system with an approved supplier of such services identified by us on the list of approved vendors and distributors or other notification to you from us advising of suppliers for your market area. your pos system cost per restaurant will depend among other things on your restaurant size and configuration the system options you choose and or we determine such as drive thru needs if any and printer needs and the types of telephone and internet access services available. you may be required to obtain a high speed always on internet connection service for your pos system. this requirement shall be defined by the then current confidential manual which may change from time to time. if high speed always on internet connection service is not available in your area dialect up internet access may be used until high speed always on internet connection service becomes available in your area. you may be required from time to time to upgrade the pos system hardware and or software at your sole cost and expense in order to maintain the pos system in conformity with our then current requirements. you must complete training for the pos system as we require. if you are buying an existing restaurant with an older cash register system it is a requirement for the transfer that you purchase and install the then current pos system in the restaurant. see exhibit franchise agreement section. a we require you to use a pos system that meets our specifications in order to i assist you in the operation of your cold stone creamery restaurant ii allow us to monitor your gross sales iii enable us to develop chain wide statistics that may improve purchasing iv assist us in the development of new authorized products or the removal of existing unsuccessful authorized products enable us to refine existing authorized products virgin islands generally improve system wide understanding of our marketing efforts and vii obtain new types of information. the pos system must be configured so that we have independent and remote access to the information and data stored in it. this access allows us to exchange collect data and other information on such basis as we shall from time to time communicate to you. there are no contractual limitations on our right to access the information in your pos system. all approved cash registers are capable of recording accumulated sales and cannot be turned back or reset and must be able to retain data in the event of power loss. you must purchase the approved electronic pos system from an approved vendor as we have required our approved supplier to make special modifications to their equipment and systems to comply with our requirements see exhibit franchise agreement section. you must also purchase approved software for your restaurant. the cost of purchasing the pos system including the software ranges from to. you must also purchase from us pos help desk phone support maintenance on both the software and hardware for your pos system the cost of which will not exceed per month. it is recommended that you also purchase hardware support for all modules for the first year you operate your cold stone creamery restaurant. the cost is approximately to per year depending on the equipment installed. this cost is subject to change by the supplier. the approved pos system has in its specifications integrated card swipe systems that process debit card credit card or other non cash payment systems including our stored value gift cards loyalty cards frequency cards gift certificates vouchers and any other similar electronic card and or payment programs collectively the gift loyalty card sponsored by us or our affiliates. you must obtain credit card and gift card processing services from our approved vendors. the charges associated with credit card and gift card transactions are compiled per transaction and therefore will vary from restaurant to restaurant. we estimate that the costs associated with credit card transactions will be between and of your gross sales. gift card transactions will cost you of the gift card redemption and may increase at any time with a day notice. the payment card industry pci requires all companies that process store or transmit credit card information to protect the cardholders information by complying with the pci data security standard pci dss. therefore as a franchisee who accepts credit cards you are required to be pci compliant by following and adhering to pci dss completing an annual questionnaire and quarterly network pci scans and installing a network firewall appliance for logging tracking reporting and security assessment. we may require a particular firewall hardware and or software. the pci compliance is mandated by the payment card industry. the cost for the quarterly network security scans network firewall appliance and annual questionnaire ranges from to per year. the cost is subject to change by supplier. you are also required to validate with kahala that your store is pci compliant to show validation you must send kahala your passing certificate showing your store is pci compliant and also verify that you have a pci compliant firewall appliance installed at your location if you process credit cards via high speed internet connectivity. you must purchase a computer and connect to the internet so that you can report your gross sales online so that you can receive online cake orders so that we can communicate by email so that you can use internet and extranet services and so that you can receive other electronic information we send. you also must at your cost maintain membership in a designated third party network and maintain an active email account. we may revise our computer specifications. if we do so we may require you to upgrade or update your computer. there is no contractual limitation on the frequency and cost of this obligation. there may be comparable equivalents on the market for the computer we require but we have not yet tested or approved any comparable computer however we may do so in the future. you are responsible for backing up and otherwise protecting your data on your computer. you are also responsible for recording and restoring all software license keys. we may require you to upgrade the hardware and software as reasonably necessary to provide reports and information required by us. all cold stone creamery franchisees are required to participate in online ordering and delivery programs which may in franchisor sole discretion require you to pay for certain goods and or services from franchisor franchisor affiliate and or unaffiliated third party providers. for example as of the disclosure document issuance date franchisees are required to enter into an agreement with and pay corresponding fees to olo as established by olo for such goods and or services. this provider may change in franchisor sole discretion upon advance notice to you. we require that you permit us to poll your sales information on a daily basis and that you execute a pre authorized electronic funds transfer form by and payable to kahala franchising which is attached to this disclosure document as exhibit permitting us to weekly debit your account for payment of weekly royalty and advertising fees and debit your account as necessary for product purchases from us or our affiliates. see exhibit franchise agreement sections. and. we may require you to enter weekly inventory information and if so would require that you permit us have remote access to that information see exhibit franchise agreement section. we may require you to permit us access to your pos system restaurant management software and financial records or similar tools thereto to poll your information daily or more frequently by electronic or other remote means see exhibit franchise agreement section. the pos system and personal computers contain sales and labor data that can be generated and stored in the systems and that allows for the generation of financial and payroll reports. item territory the franchise is granted only for the location specified in the franchise agreement or a location to be approved by us. the specific site of your cold stone creamery restaurant is subject to our approval. we will not unreasonably withhold our approval of the location. you will not receive an exclusive territory. you may face competition from other franchisees from restaurants that we own or from other channels of distribution or competitive brands that we control. you will not receive an option right of first refusal or other rights under the franchise agreement to acquire additional franchises. we and or our affiliates may establish other franchised or company owned cold stone creamery restaurants that may compete with your location including across the street from your location or in the same venue as your location. we and or our affiliates may colorado brand cold stone creamery with one or more of our other quick service restaurants or allow approved cold stone creamery stores to sell additional approved menu items under a trademark license agreement we may have with other third party restaurant concepts. we presently intend to develop cold stone creamery restaurants throughout the united states and internationally. except as expressly limited in the franchise agreement we for ourselves our affiliates and our designees retain all rights with respect to cold stone creamery restaurants the service marks all confidential and proprietary information all copyrighted materials and the sale of cold stone creamery products anywhere in the world including without limitation the right to implement multi area marketing programs that may allow us or others to solicit or sell to customers anywhere. we also reserve the right to issue mandatory policies to coordinate such multi area marketing programs. one or more future cold stone creamery restaurants may have an adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of existing cold stone creamery restaurants including your cold stone creamery restaurant. in addition we and or our affiliates may market and or test directly or indirectly cold stone creamery products or services through channels of distribution other than cold stone creamery restaurants operated by us our affiliates and franchisees including through the internet catalog sales telemarketing grocery stores movie theaters limited access highway food facilities mobile units off site sales accounts electronic mail converting other chains and other distribution opportunities or vending machines and similar automated dispensing systems other channels which generally are not available for us to franchise to you and typically involve trademark licensing and or the sale of our branded products. we may also distribute sell and or license other persons or entities to distribute and or sell products through all other channels. where tests prove to be successful we may expand our sale of products in similar businesses on a regional national or international level. we reserve the right to establish other channels to make sales that may compete with your location using our principal trademarks. these other channels could compete with you in the sale of your products. kahala franchising is under no obligation to compensate its franchisees on sales kahala franchising makes using other channels. kahala franchising is under no obligation to compensate franchisees for soliciting or accepting orders in the franchisee territory as the franchisee is granted no exclusive territory. franchisees may not use other channels including the internet catalog sales or telemarketing to make sales except that the franchisee may provide catering services anywhere as long as such services comply with the current version of our confidential manual. all sales made from catering services must be included in the franchisee gross sales. we reserve the right directly or through third parties to manufacture or sell or both anywhere other products which are the same as or similar to those sold in cold stone creamery restaurants but which bear trademarks that are not confusingly similar to any of the trademarks you are authorized to use under the franchise agreement. we reserve the right either directly or through affiliated entities to operate or license others to operate businesses other than cold stone creamery restaurants anywhere including but not limited to locations of our other quick service restaurant concepts and you agree that we or our affiliates may do so anywhere. the nrgize lifestyle cafe brand is a business that we franchise under a different trademark than cold stone creamery that sells smoothies similar to those offered by cold stone creamery. the kahala coffee traders brand is a business that we franchise under a different trademark than cold stone creamery that sells smoothies similar to those offered by cold stone creamery. in addition the surf city squeeze brand is a business that we franchise under a different trademark than cold stone creamery that also sells smoothies and the frullati cafe bakery brand is a business that we franchise under a different trademark than cold stone creamery that sells blended fruit and vegetable drinks similar to the smoothies offered by cold stone creamery. the maui wowi brand is a business that we franchise under a different trademark than cold stone creamery that sells smoothies and frappes similar to those offered by cold stone creamery. the tasti lite brand is a business we offer under a different trademark than cold stone creamery that sells frozen dessert confections with a variety of mix ins and toppings shakespeare smoothies and frozen cakes and pies similar to those offered by cold stone creamery. the pinkberry brand is a business we franchise under a different trademark than cold stone creamery that sells smoothies similar to those offered by cold stone creamery. the sweetfrog brand is a business our affiliate franchises under a different trademark than cold stone creamery that sells smoothies similar to those offered by cold stone creamery. the louisiana diperie brand is a business our affiliate franchises under a different trademark than cold stone creamery that specializes in the retail sale of an ice cream product and various dips and toppings that are similar to those offered by cold stone creamery. the planet smoothie brand is a business we franchise under a different trademark than cold stone creamery that sells smoothies and fruit drinks similar to those offered by cold stone creamery. the nrgize lifestyle cafe franchises are offered under the nrgize lifestyle cafe word and design trademarks the kahala coffee traders franchises are offered under the kahala coffee traders word and design trademarks the surf city squeeze franchises are offered under the surf city squeeze word and design trademarks the frullati cafe bakery franchises are offered under the frullati cafe bakery word and design trademarks the maui wowi franchises are offered under the maui wowi word and design trademarks the tasti lite franchises are offered under the tasti lite word and design trademarks the planet smoothie franchises are offered under the planet smoothie trademark the pinkberry franchises are offered under the pinkberry trademark sweetfrog franchises are offered by our affiliate under the sweetfrog trademark and the louisiana diperie franchises are offered by our affiliate under the louisiana diperie trademark. the nrgize lifestyle cafe stores the kahala coffee traders stores surf city squeeze stores frullati cafe bakery stores maui wowi mobile and fixed operating units pinkberry stores planet smoothie stores sweetfrog stores and mobile units louisiana diperie stores tasti lite products are primarily franchised but may also be operated by one of our affiliates. nrgize lifestyle cafe franchises have been offered by us from until march under the name of kahala franchise corporation and since august under the name of kahala franchising the kahala coffee traders franchises have been offered by us from november under kahala franchising surf city squeeze franchises have been offered by us from until under the name of malibu smoothie franchise corporation and surf city squeeze franchise corporation from until march under the name of kahala franchise corporation and since august under the name of kahala franchising frullati cafe bakery franchises have been offered by us from until under the name of frullati franchise systems incorporated from until march under the name of kahala franchise corporation and since august under the name of kahala franchising maui wowi franchises have been offered by us since november tasti lite franchises have been by our affiliate from february until april under the name of tasti lite llc and by us since june but only as a colorado brand in a planet smoothie planet smoothie franchises have been offered us from june until april under the name of tasti lite llc and since may under the name of kahala franchising and pinkberry franchises have been offered by our affiliate from july until april under the name pinkberry ventures incorporated and by us since june. sweetfrog franchises have been offered by our affiliate since september. louisiana diperie franchises have been offered by our affiliate since april. maui wowi mobile and or fixed operating unit an nrgize lifestyle cafe kahala coffee traders restaurant planet smoothie restaurant surf city squeeze sweetfrog restaurant and or mobile unit louisiana diperie restaurant frullati cafe bakery tasti lite restaurant and or a pinkberry restaurant may be located within the vicinity of your cold stone creamery restaurant. franchisees of the nrgize lifestyle cafe brand kahala coffee traders brand surf city squeeze brand frullati cafe bakery brand maui wowi brand tasti lite brand pinkberry and louisiana diperie brand are not currently given an exclusive territory. traditional planet smoothie franchises do have an exclusive territory pertaining to other traditional planet smoothie franchises. kahala franchising will provide support to all of its concepts regardless of the vicinity of a concept to another concept that sells similar products. the principal business address of these similar concepts is the same as kahala franchising address. kahala franchising and mty united states of america usa or do not maintain separate offices or separate training facilities for the similar competing business. we may merge with acquire and or be acquired by any other business including without limitation a business that competes with your cold stone creamery restaurant or acquire and convert any retail stores including without limitation retail stores operated by competitors or otherwise operated independently or as part of or in association with any other system or chain whether franchised or corporately owned. on july franchisor parent company kahala brands merged with a wholly owned subsidiary of mty. mty address is transcanada highway suite saint laurent qubec h dakota south dakota mf. as described in item subsequent to the merger in addition to the concepts franchised by kahala franchising or its current or former affiliates mty canada franchises over sixty different restaurant concepts and sub franchises two other different restaurant concepts. certain of the restaurant concepts franchised by mty offer goods or services that are the same or similar to those that you will offer under the cold stone creamery brand. mty offers the same or similar goods or services under the louisiana crmire trademark and sub franchises under the tcby trademarks. at this time the louisiana crmire concept and sub franchised tcby concepts are not franchised or sub franchised by mty in the united states and are only offered in canada by mty subsidiary mty canada with no plans at this time to expand to the united states. mty united states of america usa or also offers louisiana diperie which specializes in the retail sale of an ice cream product with various dips and toppings under the louisiana diperie trademark. the tcby brand is offered in the united states by famous brands international unrelated to franchisor or mty. you must obtain our prior approval to relocate your cold stone creamery restaurant. the approval or rejection by us of any proposed relocation shall be in our sole discretion. in order to relocate your restaurant you must be in compliance with your franchise agreement the relocation must be for a legitimate business reason and we must approve the new location. in connection with any relocation your cold stone creamery restaurant may not be closed for business for more than thirty days. your franchise agreement is for a specific location only so you may not open additional cold stone creamery restaurants under the same franchise agreement. you must obtain our prior approval to purchase and open additional cold stone creamery restaurants. the approval or rejection by us shall be in our sole discretion. in order to purchase an additional cold stone creamery restaurant you must be in compliance with your existing franchise agreement you must qualify to operate additional restaurants you must enter into our then current form of franchise agreement and pay the initial franchise fee and we must approve the location. item trademarks we will grant you the non exclusive right to operate the cold stone creamery restaurant specified in your franchise agreement or any amendments to your franchise agreement under the cold stone creamery trademarks. you will also be granted the right to use our other current or future trademarks that we may from time to time designate as being available for use by franchisees in the cold stone creamery system. by trademarks we mean trade names trademarks service marks logos trade dress as defined below and product identifiers used to identify your restaurant. trade dress is defined as the total appearance and image of the cold stone creamery restaurant the ice cream cakes pies smoothies shakespeare specialty beverages soft drinks and other frozen dessert products and related products and packaging all related features such as size texture shape color or color combinations and graphics of cold stone creamery restaurants and the ice cream cakes pies smoothies shakespeare specialty beverages soft drinks and other frozen dessert products and related products and packaging and all advertising and marketing techniques used to promote the franchise as well as specifically including all signage menu boards product displays and any color schemes and designs utilized in connection with cold stone creamery restaurants interior walls counters table tops chairs and floors. you must not directly or indirectly contest our right to our trademarks. you will not have the exclusive right to use the trademarks nor will you acquire by use or otherwise any right title or interest in or to the trademarks other than as expressly contained in and limited by the franchise agreement. your right to use the trademarks is limited and temporary. upon expiration or termination of the franchise agreement you may not directly or indirectly use the trademarks in any manner or for any purpose and you may be required by us to renovate the premises of your cold stone creamery restaurant to eliminate the trademarks and delaware identify such premises to remove all trade dress including without limitation the cold stone returning it to a vanilla shell at your expense. the following trademarks have been registered with the united states patent and trademark office on the principal register trademark registration number registration date it great day for ice cream september cold stone creamery february cold stone march november december august cold stone creamery october cake batter ice cream november mine december trademark registration number registration date ours december everybody december minute vacation march november november november ultimate ice cream experience may cold stone express april my cold stone club april june like it september love it september gotta have it september cold stone october may all affidavits of use required to be filed to maintain these registrations have been filed. there are no applications pending with the united states patent and trademark office at this time. no one other than us or our affiliates has an ownership interest in the above referenced trademarks. kahala franchising is the sole owner of the above referenced trademarks and has all right title and interest in and to the trademarks and goodwill. no agreements limit our right to use or license the use of our trademarks. you must follow our rules when you use our trademarks. use of the service marks or trademarks must be accompanied by the registration service mark sm trademark in close proximity to the trademark. you cannot use our trademarks as part of your corporate partnership limited liability company or other entity name or register it as a trade name. you may not use our trademarks in connection with the sale of an unauthorized product or service or in a manner not authorized in writing by us. you may not directly or indirectly contest or aid in contesting the validity of the trademarks or the ownership of the trademarks by us nor may you directly or indirectly apply to register or otherwise seek to use or control our trademarks or any confusingly similar variation or form in the united states or any other country nor may you assist any others to do so. you must modify or discontinue the use of a trademark if we modify or discontinue it at your sole cost. you must immediately notify us of any apparent infringement of or challenge to your use of any of our trademarks or any claim by any person of any rights in any of our trademarks. you must not communicate with any person other than us and our legal counsel in connection with any such infringement challenge or claim. we will have the sole discretion to take such action as we may deem appropriate to protect our trademarks and the right to exclusively control any litigation united states patent and trademark office proceeding or other proceeding arising out of any such infringement challenge or claim or otherwise relating to our trademarks. the franchise agreement does not require us to take affirmative action when notified of these uses or claims but indicates we have the sole discretion to take such action as we may deem appropriate. you must execute such documents render such assistance and do such acts and things as may in the opinion of our counsel be necessary or advisable to protect and maintain our interests in connection with any such litigation or proceeding or to otherwise protect and maintain our interests in our trademarks. the franchise agreement requires that we will indemnify and hold you harmless for from and against any and all claims liabilities causes of action demands obligations costs and expenses including reasonable attorneys fees arising out of any claim of infringement or unfair competition in connection with your use of our trademarks provided that such use is in accordance with the provisions of the franchise agreement. we may in our sole discretion modify or discontinue use of any of the above referenced trademarks and or use one or more additional or substitute service marks or trademarks. if we decide to do so you must do so also at your own expense. the franchise agreement does not provide you any additional rights if we require you to modify or discontinue using a trademark. however if we require you to modify or discontinue use of our trademarks and or use other trademarks in its place at any time other than upon renewal of the franchise agreement and that requirement is a direct result of proceedings or litigation that determined that our and our franchisees use of the trademarks infringed upon a third party rights we will bear the direct actual and reasonable cost of those modifications or discontinuances. we do not know of any superior prior rights or infringing uses or effective material determinations of the united states patent and trademark office trademark trial and appeal board trademark administrator of this state or of any court nor do we know of any pending infringement opposition or cancellation proceeding that could materially affect your use of our trademark. we do not know of any pending material federal or state court litigation regarding our use or ownership rights in the above registered trademarks or pending applications. item patents copyrights and proprietary information we own proprietary information and rights in numerous items such as menu formats advertising designs processes techniques recipes for cold stone creamery ice cream cakes pies smoothies shakespeare specialty beverages or other frozen dessert products the method of production and storage of products and information contained in the confidential manual and related documents. in connection with the operation of the franchise we may disclose to you certain information in which we claim proprietary rights. for example our manual incorporates certain information that we believe is protected under the law of trade secrets including sales and marketing techniques and restaurant operations. in addition although we have not registered the copyright with the united states copyright office the confidential manual is protected against unauthorized copying under united states copyright laws for years from the date of creation or years from the date of publication whichever is shorter. you must use the proprietary information only in the manner required by us and in no other manner. this information is strictly confidential and you may not disclose it to any person or use any of that information for any purpose except disclosure to a person who has signed and delivered to us the confidentiality agreement contained in the confidential manual and you may only use this information as necessary in connection with the operation of your restaurant. in addition you must fully and strictly comply with all security measures required by us for maintaining the confidentiality of all information designated by us as trade secrets. no agreements limit our right to use or license the use of our statutory copyright of the confidential manual. if you reproduce any items or materials suitable for copyright protection you must make sure that each item bears a copyright notice in the form specified by us. you must use the proprietary information only in the manner required by us and in no other manner. this information is strictly confidential and you may not disclose to any person or use any of that information for any purpose except disclosure to a person who has signed and delivered to us a confidentiality agreement and use as necessary in connection with the operation of your franchised business. in addition you must fully and strictly comply with all security measures required by us for maintaining the confidentiality of all information designated by us as trade secrets. you will not have the exclusive right to use the innovations or any of our patents or patent applications copyrights or proprietary information nor will you acquire by use or otherwise any right title or interest in or to the innovations the copyrights or the proprietary information other than as expressly contained in and limited by the franchise agreement. your right to use the innovations the claimed subject matter of any patents or patent applications the copyrights and the proprietary information is limited and temporary. upon expiration or termination of the franchise agreement you may not directly or indirectly use the innovations the claimed subject matter of any patents or patent applications the copyrights or the proprietary information in any manner or for any purpose. you must immediately notify us of any conduct that could constitute infringement of or challenge to the innovations the patents or patent applications the copyrights and our proprietary information. we will decide in our sole discretion whether to institute any action in connection with infringement of or challenge to the innovations the patents or patent applications the copyrights and our proprietary information and will control all proceedings and litigation. the franchise agreement does not require us to take affirmative action when notified of infringement but indicates we have the sole discretion to take such action as we may deem appropriate. we are not required to protect your right to use the innovations the patents or patent applications the copyrights and proprietary information. as indicated in the franchise agreement we will indemnify you for all damages for which you are held liable in any lawsuit arising out of your proper use of the innovations the patents or patent applications the copyrights and our proprietary information in compliance with the franchise agreement. we may in our sole discretion modify or discontinue use of the innovations the patents or patent applications the copyrights and our proprietary information and or use other information and or rights in its place. if we decide to do so you must do so also at your expense. the franchise agreement does not provide you any additional rights if we require you to modify or discontinue use of the innovations the patents or patent applications the copyrights and our proprietary information. however if we require you to modify or discontinue use of the innovations the patents or patent applications the copyrights and our proprietary information and or use other information and or rights in its place at any time other than upon renewal of the franchise agreement and that requirement is a direct result of proceedings or litigation that determined that our and our franchisees use of the innovations the patents or patent applications the copyrights and the proprietary information infringed upon a third party rights we will bear the actual direct and reasonable cost of those modifications or discontinuances. the rights granted in this paragraph are your sole and exclusive remedy for any infringement by any part of the system. cold stone obtained the following design patents from the uspto title patent number issuance date combined cake and ice cream dessert d september combined cake and ice cream dessert d june one issued design patent d relates to ornamental features and the design of the ice cream cake sold under the trademark midnight delight. this patent term is fourteen years from the issuance date of september. the other issued design patent d related to ornamental features and the design of the ice cream cake sold under the trademark strawberry passion. this patent term is fourteen years from the issuance date of june. we have no pending patent applications that are material to the franchise. we do not know of any current material determinations of the united states patent and trademark office united states copyright office or of any court nor do we know of any effective determinations or any material proceedings pending in the united states patent and trademark office or of any court regarding the patent application. we do not know of any patent or copyright infringement that could materially affect the franchisee. item obligation to participate in the actual operation of the franchise business while the franchise agreement does not specifically require you or your principals to personally participate in the direct operation of the franchise it is our intention to select as cold stone creamery franchisees only those who plan to actively participate in the direct operation and daily affairs of the cold stone creamery restaurant. the franchise must be personally managed with on premises supervision and directly operated by you or another partner shareholder or member of your business organization or a manager who must have successfully completed the training program. if you are an individual and married your spouse must sign the guaranty of franchise agreement in which your spouse agrees to perform and guarantees all of the franchisee obligations to us and our affiliates contained in the franchise agreement see exhibit and a non disclosure and non competition agreement see exhibit if applicable sign the guaranty of sublease in which your spouse agrees to perform and guarantees all of the sublessee obligations to us and our affiliates contained in the sublease see exhibit and if you purchase a corporate restaurant sign the guaranty of promissory note and security agreement and guaranty of sublease in which your spouse agrees to perform and guarantees all of the franchisee obligations to us and our affiliates contained in the promissory note and security agreement and all of the sublessee obligations to us and our affiliates contained in the sublease see exhibit guaranty of promissory note and security agreement and exhibit guaranty of sublease. each person corporation partnership limited liability company or other entity that owns directly or indirectly an equity interest in the franchised entity principal and each executive officer must sign the personal acceptance attached to the franchise agreement personal acceptance in which the principal agrees to be bound by the restrictive covenants the confidentiality provisions and certain other provisions contained in the franchise agreement. each principal and his her spouse if married must also sign the guaranty of franchise agreement in which the principal and his her spouse if married agree to perform and guarantee all of the franchisee obligations to us and our affiliates contained in the franchise agreement his her spouse if married sign the non disclosure and non competition agreement if applicable sign the guaranty of sublease in which the principal and his her spouse if married agree to perform and guarantee all of the sublessee obligations to us and our affiliates contained in the sublease and if purchasing a corporate restaurant sign the guaranty of promissory note and security agreement and guaranty of sublease in which each principal and his or her spouse if married agrees to perform and guarantees all of the franchisee obligations to us and our affiliates contained in the promissory note and security agreement and all of the sublessee obligations to us and our affiliates contained in the sublease. in the event that any person who has not signed an appropriate guaranty becomes your spouse or the holder of any class or your stock or ownership interests or a spouse of such holder at any time after the execution of the respective agreement as referenced above you must cause such person to immediately execute and deliver the required guaranty to us. we are not seeking to license you to operate a cold stone creamery restaurant if your principals are merely seeking a passive investment. we strongly recommend that you devote a substantial amount of time to your cold stone creamery restaurant whether or not you hire a manager. franchisees that do not devote their full time efforts to the establishment and operation of their restaurants may have lower gross sales higher operating costs and lesser name recognition in their areas than those franchisees that do devote their full efforts to the business. examples of the types of functions that you might perform include training and supervision of employees inventory checks review of sales and food costs local store marketing bookkeeping and all reasonable efforts to ensure smooth and efficient operations. additionally you must employ on a full time basis at least one on premises supervisor the manager for the restaurant. the manager of the restaurant must at all times be a person who meets our criteria as a qualified restaurant operator. the manager is not required to have any equity interest in the franchised business. the manager must devote his or her entire time during normal business hours to the management operation and development of the franchised business and must maintain the confidentiality of the trade secrets and proprietary information comply with the use of the proprietary marks conform with the covenants not to compete and conform with the operating standards in the franchise agreement and confidential manual. the manager is required to sign the confidentiality agreement. in the interest of safe and efficient job performance business operation and public health and safety you must have a manager on each shift who is able to read and understand our written materials and communicate with your employees and customers in the english language. this requirement will not restrict the manager or your employees from speaking in any other language with you other employees or customers and shall not apply to any employee while on personal time or breaks. all personnel employed by you in connection with the operation of your cold stone creamery restaurant must maintain standards of sanitation cleanliness and demeanor as may be established by us. all personnel must wear a uniform or other clothing approved by us. in addition you must ensure that all employees whose duties include customer service have sufficient literacy and fluency in the english language or such other language that is the primary language in your market to adequately serve the public at your cold stone creamery restaurant. item restrictions on what the franchisee may sell we require that your business is solely that of a cold stone creamery restaurant and you may not conduct any other business or activity at the site of the restaurant without our prior written approval. for traditional restaurants you must offer the full menu prescribed by us subject to change from time to time in our sole discretion. non traditional restaurants may offer a more limited menu than the traditional restaurant as detailed in the confidential manual. we have the right to require you to sell additional authorized products and services from time to time that we believe will be successful. you will be obligated to offer and sell those new products and to participate in all local regional seasonal and promotional programs initiatives and campaigns adopted by us in which we require you to participate. we reserve the right to designate which of our franchisees may or will be required to participate in new product or service tests new or modified product or service offerings and other programs and initiatives that we may periodically develop. if we designate you for participation in any such program initiative or campaign you must participate when and as required by us. there are no limits on our right to require you to offer and sell those new products or to participate in those programs initiatives and campaigns. you may not add any item to your menu unless it is first researched and tested through our research and development center and approved by us in writing. in addition you may not offer or sell any products or services specified by us in any configuration form or manner including items for resale other than those specifically approved by us. you may not market your cold stone creamery restaurant or use the service marks on the internet without our prior approval. you are prohibited from offering or selling any products or services not authorized or approved by us. you may only use products materials ingredients supplies paper goods uniforms fixtures furnishings signs equipment pos system debit and credit card and gift loyalty card processing service and methods of product preparation and delivery that meet our requirements as specified in the confidential manual. if we believe in good faith that any product offered by you may be unhealthy unsafe or unsanitary and we request that you discard that product you must do so immediately. in addition we may require you to close your cold stone creamery restaurant until we are satisfied that any unhealthy unsafe or unsanitary condition has been completely corrected. item renewal termination transfer and dispute resolution the franchise relationship this table lists certain important provisions of the franchise and related agreements. you should read these provisions in the agreements attached to this disclosure document. provision section in franchise agreement summary a length of the term of the franchise section. if you are purchasing a new or existing non operating cold stone creamery restaurant the term is i years from the date the restaurant opens to the public if you own the property or enter into a lease directly with the landlord or other third party or ii the term of the sublease if you enter into a sublease with a kahala franchising affiliate excluding any extensions and renewal options. if you are purchasing an existing and operating cold stone creamery restaurant the term is i years from the effective date of the franchise agreement if you own the property or enter into a lease directly with the landlord or other third party or ii the term of the sublease if you enter into a sublease with a kahala franchising affiliate excluding any extensions or renewal options. if you are purchasing a cold stone creamery restaurant that will be colorado branded into another kahala brand restaurant the term of your franchise agreement for this brand will equal the remaining term of the existing franchise agreement for the store which this brand will be colorado branded into so both franchise agreements will expire concurrently. if you are entering into a renewal agreement for your cold stone creamery restaurant the term is five years from the effective date of your renewal franchise agreement. provision section in franchise agreement summary. renewal or extension of the term section new transfer if you are not in default and satisfy certain conditions you may renew for a single renewal term of five years with no further right to renew at the end of the renewal term. requirements for you to renew or extend section new transfer renewal means to sign a renewal franchise agreement which will be in the form of the franchise agreement then customarily used by us in renewing franchises and all other agreements then customarily used by us in the granting of franchises. the renewal franchise agreement may have materially different terms and conditions than the original franchise agreement including higher royalty and advertising fees. if offered you must give at least days notice prior to the expiration date of the term not be in default be in compliance with the terms of the franchise agreement and confidential manual not have received more than notices of default or breach of the franchise agreement during its term nor more than such notices during the years immediately before the proposed renewal date have a premises sign a new franchise agreement which may have materially different terms and conditions than the original franchise agreement pay a renewal franchise fee remodel or refurbish if necessary and be current on all financial obligations to us. you must also sign the general release in form attached to the disclosure document as exhibit. successor term section renewal if at the end of your renewal term you are not in default and satisfy certain conditions you may apply for a successor term. requirements for you to obtain a successor term section renewal applying for and entering into a successor term means to sign a new franchise agreement which will be in the form of the franchise agreement then customarily used by us in entering into new franchises and all other agreements then customarily used by us in the granting of franchises. the successor term franchise agreement may have materially different terms and conditions than the original franchise agreement including higher royalty and advertising fees. in the event you desire to apply to us to extend your rights to operate the franchised business for a successor term you must give at least days notice prior to the expiration date of the renewal term not be in default be in compliance with the terms of the franchise agreement and confidential manual not have received more than notices of default or breach of provision section in franchise agreement summary the franchise agreement during its term nor more than such notices during the years immediately before the proposed successor term effective date have a premises sign a franchise agreement which may have materially different terms and conditions than the original franchise agreement pay an initial franchise fee remodel or refurbish if necessary and be current on all financial obligations to us. you must also sign the general release in form attached to the disclosure document as exhibit we reserve the right to reject your application for a successor term at our sole discretion for any reason without limitation failure to meet our then current standards or requirements for new franchisees. if we decide to reject your application for a successor term to operate the franchise business we will give you a notice to that effect within sixty days after you deliver to us your notice of intent to apply for a successor term. termination by you not applicable. termination by us without cause not applicable. termination by us with cause sections. new and transfer and. we can terminate only if you are in default under the franchise agreement or any other franchise agreements or other agreements between you and us. cause defined defaults that can be cured sections. and. you have an immediate cure period of less than hours to cure defaults of your violation of our social media policy regarding posting content containing inappropriate public displays of affection confidential information violations of health or safety standards foul or obscene language or images that have not been consented to. you have hours to cure defaults of your violation of i any law regulation or order ii our standards relating to health sanitation or safety iii our policy regarding posting defamatory or offensive comments on social media sites or iv you cease to operate your store for a period of hours without our consent. you have hours to cure defaults of your violation of our social media policy where you have a social media site in connection with your franchised business without approval or hold out your social media site to be an official site of cold stone creamery or if you fail to participate in any limited time product offering value offering contest promotion or charity event. you have days to cure defaults of failure to i pay us or provision section in franchise agreement summary any advertising fund inclusive of a cooperative monies owing or ii maintain insurance. you have days to cure other defaults except those which have no cure period. if a statute in the state or municipality in which the restaurant is located requires application of that state or municipal law and that statute requires a cure period for the applicable default which is longer than the cure period listed in the franchise agreement the statutory cure period will apply. provision section in franchise agreement summary. cause defined defaults that cannot be cured sections. and. non curable defaults failure to open your restaurant within the time period listed in your franchise agreement non compliance with applicable laws and regulations failure to adhere to the highest standards of honesty integrity fair dealing and ethical conduct involvement in any business practice which may be injurious to the system or goodwill associated with the proprietary marks defaulting on your lease or sublease and failure to cure such default lease or sublease is terminated due to your default or location is lost for failure to comply with lease or sublease you or any owner colorado owner or principal of the franchise is convicted of a felony a crime involving moral turpitude or any other crime or offense that is reasonably likely to adversely affect the system the goodwill associated therewith or our interest therein closing or relocating your restaurant without our express advance written consent transferring or attempting to transfer your franchise agreement or restaurant to a third party without our express advance written consent bankruptcy insolvency and similar events conviction of felony making any false representations or warranties repeated defaults even if previously cured abandonment trademark misuse unauthorized use of any of the components of the system materially impair the goodwill or reputation of the system breach of confidentiality or non competition covenants fraud with respect to obligations under the franchise agreement you or any of your owners officers directors managers members or partners violate any anti bribery corruption or similar law or appear on a blocked persons list or receive funding from any embargoed country falsify financial data failure to promptly provide upon request financial data and records specified in the franchise agreement and intentionally underreporting weekly gross sales. i your obligations on termination non renewal sections. and. obligations include cessation of your operation of the franchised business in all matters complete delaware identification payment of amounts due us also see below including early termination damages if any transfer of telephone numbers maintenance of records and compliance with any confidentiality requirements and covenants not to compete. assignment of contract by us section. no restriction on our right to assign. transfer by you section. any voluntary involuntary including by operation of provision section in franchise agreement summary definition law direct or indirect assignment sale gift or other transfer by you. our approval of transfer by franchise owner section. we have the right to approve all transfers but we will not unreasonably withhold approval. conditions for our approval of transfer section. new franchise owner qualifies no existing defaults transfer franchise fee paid all obligations under the franchise agreement are fully paid and satisfied any local store marketing funds used that were not yet contributed by current franchisee to be reimbursed to us new franchisee completes training remodels or refurbishes if necessary and keeps existing store telephone number release signed by you new agreements signed. our right of first refusal to acquire your business section. we can match any offer. our option to purchase your business section. we can match any offer. your death or disability section. if representative of franchisee wants the restaurant to continue operating it must be transferred within days to an approved buyer. upon non compliance all of franchisee rights under the franchise agreement will be automatically terminated. non competition covenants during the term of the franchise section. no involvement in any competing business. non competition covenants after the franchise agreement is terminated or expires section. no competing business for years within miles of another cold stone creamery restaurant. modification of the agreement sections. and. confidential manual subject to change at any time otherwise no modifications unless in writing and signed by both parties. integration merger clause section. only the terms of the franchise agreement are binding subject to state law. any representations or promises outside the disclosure document and franchise agreement may not be enforceable. provision section in franchise agreement summary. dispute resolution by arbitration or mediation section. any dispute that cannot be resolved by or is not subject to mediation shall be settled by arbitration administered by the american arbitration association in maricopa county arizona. this does not apply to a dispute where we bring an action for an express obligation to pay monies declaratory relief preliminary or permanent equitable relief any action at law for damage to kahala franchising goodwill the proprietary information the trademarks or other property or for fraudulent conduct by franchisee or if a delay in the mediation process may adversely affect the public. either party may appeal the arbitrator final award if it is over to the appropriate. district court. choice of forum section. litigation must be in maricopa county arizona. choice of law section. except to the extent governed by the united states trademark laws or the franchise laws of any state arizona law applies. sublease this table lists certain important provisions of the sublease. you should read these provisions in the agreements attached to this disclosure document. provision section in sublease summary. term of the sublease. ends one day before expiration of master lease including any renewals of master lease. renewal or extension of the term. and. if the master lease contains a renewal option you must notify us to exercise it. requirements for you to renew or extend. and. you must be in good standing and you must notify us of your intent to renew at least but not more than days before we are required to notify the master landlord of intent to renew. termination by you not applicable you have no right to terminate the sublease. termination by us without cause not applicable there is no right to terminate the sublease without cause. termination by us with cause our leasing affiliate may terminate the sublease for cause. our leasing affiliate can terminate only if you default under the master lease sublease or the franchise agreement. cause defined curable defaults. our leasing affiliate can terminate if you default in the i payment of any sums you owe ii performance of any of the terms covenants or conditions of the master lease or sublease or iii default under the franchise agreement or any other agreement between you or your affiliates and us or our affiliates. provision section in sublease summary. cause defined defaults that cannot be cured. bankruptcy of or general assignment for the benefit of creditors by franchisee defaults under the master lease that are not curable. your obligations on termination nonrenewal our leasing affiliate may enter and take possession of the premises and all of the furniture fixtures equipment signage inventory and other items covered by our lien under section. of the sublease you are not relieved of further obligations under the sublease. assignment of agreement by us our leasing affiliate has the right to assign under the master lease. transfer by you defined and approval of leasing affiliate is required. our approval of transfer by you approval of leasing affiliate at its sole discretion and approval of landlord may be required. conditions for our approval of transfer our leasing affiliate must consent. our right of first refusal to acquire your business not applicable none. our leasing affiliate already holds the master lease. our option to purchase your business not applicable none. our leasing affiliate already holds the master lease. your death or disability not applicable none. non competition covenants during the term of the franchise not applicable none. non competition covenants after the franchise is terminated or expires not applicable none. modification of the agreement not applicable none. integration merger clause the sublease including any exhibits contains the entire agreement of the parties. dispute resolution by arbitration or mediation not applicable none. choice of forum not applicable none. choice of law arizona law applies item public figures we currently do not use any public figure to promote our cold stone creamery franchise system. item financial performance representations the ftc franchise rule permits a franchisor to provide information about the actual or potential financial performance of its franchised and or franchisor owned outlets if there is a reasonable basis for the information and if the information is included in the disclosure document. financial performance information that differs from that included in item may be given only if a franchisor provides the actual records of an existing outlet you are considering buying or a franchisor supplements the information provided in this item for example by providing information about possible performance at a particular location or under particular circumstances. the average gross sales amounts contained in the table below pertain to the historic performance of all cold stone creamery franchised stores located in the united states that were existing outlets that did not open for the first time during the past fiscal year. the time period measured was december through november average gross sales median gross sales number of stores measured number of stores that met or exceeded the average gross sales percentag of stores that met or exceeded the average gross sales number of stores that met or exceede the median gross sales percentag of stores that met or exceeded the median gross sales all franchised outlets top of franchised outlets bottom of franchised outlets notes. as of november there were franchised stores open in the united states. of these outlets of these outlets were franchised existing locations that did not open for the first time during the past fiscal year were located in the united states excluding locations in guam and were not temporarily closed as of fiscal year end. the information is based upon gross sales which means the total revenue derived from the sales of goods and services less sales tax discounts allowances and returns of franchised stores. some outlets have sold this amount. your individual results may differ. there is no assurance that youll sell as much. the above table and information were prepared from i weekly sales reports provided to us by franchisees. we have not audited the information provided by the franchisees. we will provide to you the spreadsheets as written substantiation for the representations made in this item upon reasonable request. other than the preceding financial performance representation we do not make any financial performance representations. we also do not authorize our employees or representatives to make any such representations either orally or in writing. if you are purchasing an existing outlet however we may provide you with the actual records of that outlet. if you receive any other financial performance information or projections of your future income you should report it to the franchisor management by contacting john wuycheck kahala franchising. via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona the federal trade commission and the appropriate state regulatory agencies. item outlets and franchisee information table number systemwide outlet summary for years to united states column column column column column outlet type year outlets at the start of the year outlets at the end of the year net change franchised company owned total outlets table number transfers of outlets from franchisees to new owners other than the franchisor for years to column column column state year number of transfers arkansas arizona california colorado court district of columbia delaware floruit georgia hi iowa idaho illinois in key louisiana massachusetts medicinae doctor michigan minnesota month mount north carolina new jersey new mexico nevada new york oh or pennsylvania scottish tennessee texas utah virginia washington west virginia wisconsin wyoming total table number status of franchised outlets for years to col. col. col. col. col. col. col. col. col. state year outlets at start of year outlets opene termina tions non renewal reacquire by franchisor ceased operation other reasons outlets at end of the year alabama alaska arizona arkansas california colorado court delaware district of columbia floruit georgia guam hi idaho illinois in iowa kansas key louisiana medicinae doctor massachusetts michigan minnesota month mount north carolina north dakota north-east new hampshire new jersey new mexico nevada new york oh ok or pennsylvania prairie rhode island scottish south dakota tennessee texas utah virginia washington wisconsin west virginia wyoming total us table number status of company owned outlets for years to col. col. col. col. col. col. col. col. state year outlets at start of year outlets opened outlets reacquired from franchisee outlets closed outlets sold to franchisee outlets at end of the year arizona massachusetts minnesota north-east new hampshire or totals table number projected openings as of november column column column column state franchise agreements signed but outlet not opened projected new franchised outlets in the next fiscal year projected new company owned outlets in the next fiscal year alaska alabama arizona california colorado district of columbia floruit georgia idaho illinois kansas key louisiana medicinae doctor michigan month mount north carolina new jersey new mexico nevada new york oh pennsylvania prairie scottish tennessee texas utah virginia total list of the names of all franchisees and the address and telephone number of each of their outlets is attached to this disclosure document as exhibit. we had franchise owners who had an outlet terminated canceled not renewed or otherwise voluntarily or involuntarily ceased to do business under the franchise agreements during the year ending november totaling outlets that were terminated reacquired or closed. franchisees who had an outlet terminated canceled not renewed or otherwise voluntarily or involuntarily ceased to do business under the franchise agreements during the year ending november. former franchisee company former franchisee names city state phone obispo enrique and rosa enrique obispo rosa obispo chula vista california purple mango incorporated nirav shah vaishali shah parker colorado humphrey reanesey enterprises incorporated franklin hok mom kok reangsey kok bellflower lapalma california chicago scoops llc antonio gracias jonathan shulkin kyle welch thomas watkins chicago illinois home hari krishna creamery llc chandrakant patel mitul chothani nikunjkumar rabadiya fort myers greensburg floruit pennsylvania all about ice cream llc sheik sabir hussain west lafayette in we also had franchise owners who had an outlet transfer during the year ending november. the name city and state and current business telephone number or if unknown the last known home telephone number of these franchisees is as follows franchisees who had an outlet transfer during the year ending november prior company name prior franchisee names city state prior franchisee phone university creamery llc lisa gies tucson arizona niagara investments company. jeraldine fitzgerald mike fitzgerald centennial colorado lucky in sweets incorporated douglas robbins heather robbins lompoc santa barbara california gies lisa lisa gies tucson arizona shiv service llc dilen ganatra chula vista california keskin ozgul keskin selcuk ladera california brothers incorporated charles keskin ranch mission viejo rishtaa incorporated neha patel niraj patel el dorado hills california sweet dreams llc chris anatra christine krysia anatra guilford court aai shree delight llc harshaben sarvaiya tejaskumar sarvaiya johns creek georgia gdl enterprises incorporated guy della lucia farmington utah li hsiang linguistic hsueh hui wang hsiang linguistic li hsueh hui wang irvine tustin california shree balaji foods incorporated mukesh kumar rishabh singh santa clara california maple iced delight llc kinnaryben patel meghna patel pinklekumar patel rakesh patel eden prairie plymout minnesota eko enterprises llc gagandeep oberoi tejinder arora mukilteo washington kim david and sun david kim sun kim corona california dayton frozen delights llc anil patel ken sharp fort mitchell mason key ohio saimira llc minu nagarajan san jose california vyas and sons llc nishant vyas mountain view california business house of moeens incorporated ayesha moeen moeen ul haq porter ranch california jjm enterprises llc james morrison maryjane morrison parker colorado stauros enterprises incorporated karen shelton timothy shelton yelm washington thomas gill harjinder harjinder gill dubuque iowa half moon ventures llc dianna lee johnson roger eric johnson roger victor johnson bellevue colber washington jkci valrico corporation joshua cook kelly cook valrico floruit calabash llc eric hemmen jeffrey hemmen renton washington twin grins ii llc paul weber highlands ranch colorado sweet dreams llc chris anatra christine krysia anatra guilford court sindiana food llc abdallah alabama saadan jamal naboulsi louisiana jolla california sindiana food llc jamal naboulsi louisiana jolla california sobe incorporated ozgul keskin selcuk charles keskin ladera ranch mission viejo california tap restaurant group llc amy white thomas friedel toledo oh megha llc jay megha purvi megha henderson nevada mcreek ventures llc dianna lee johnson roger eric johnson roger victor johnson bellevue colber washington sadda pallavi and prabhu pitchai prabhu pitchai sadda pallavi aldie virginia peterson keith and julie julie peterson keith peterson sparta new jersey dandy land corporation ederlina balboa banez susan baik venice beach california ssj enterprises corporation james morrison steve selenke aurora parker colorado south carolina armenian properties llc karen petrosyan burbank california sahn corporation justin ahn olney medicinae doctor shreenath jabu llc pooja mehta romil mehta germantown medicinae doctor scream durango incorporated ali arnold patrick arnold westminster colorado ali honeydew creamery incorporated darren houe patricia houe sunnyvale california lakeland creamery incorporated catherine byrne john mckey mary mckey robert chip byrne lakeland odes sa floruit sweets llc steven tizzano champlin minnesota jkci valrico corporation joshua cook kelly cook valrico floruit group llc ahmed hassan mohamed elmasry edison rolling hills estates california new jersey shk united llc noah sperling omar kabbani fenton michigan rockport international investment corporation mumtaz jaffer saleem jaffer leavenworth ly nden washington kodiak management llc brian white david white sheryl lashoff albany altamon new york investments of tampa incorporated catherine byrne robert chip byrne odessa floruit sweet dream dunwoody llc salima jiwani sanih jiwani suleman jiwani tucker georgia shah ventures llc numaan shah syed saif ul islam shah pomfret white plains medicinae doctor dream cream llc elizabeth villegas jose alfredo villegas lubbock texas huddlestun creamery incorporated ruth huddlestun william huddlestun oswego illinois business house of moeens incorporated ayesha moeen moeen ul haq porter ranch california purnell fason fason purnell davidsonville medicinae doctor kodiak management llc brian white david white sheryl lashoff albany altamon new york shining music llc ning pan xi lin zhi lin austin fishers in texas lisa. gies lisa gies tucson arizona great lakes creamery of valparaiso llc florence moos joseph moos valparaiso in khoiriyah llc putri khoiriyah brentwood california sf group incorporated angela still dawn funderburk james funderburk mark still branson month amba groups llc damodhar shankar priya shankar delaware pere wisconsin creamery on the pond llc erica reisberger trent reisberger graham north carolina lucky llc nengyou zheng qing ye collumbus columbus oh oh ohio sfg rogers llc angela still dawn funderburk james funderburk mark still branson month sfg fayetteville llc angela still dawn funderburk james funderburk mark still branson month huddlestun creamery incorporated ruth huddlestun william oswego illinois huddlestun creme fraiche of north carolina llc muhammad masood yousef cary north carolina lake effect ice cream company incorporated dan carriero lakeview new york triple scoop ii llc brian davis jean marie davis sue annual davis mesa arizona dreamy creamy llc caylie sadin victoria sadin new orleans louisiana northern mariana islands ice cream enterprises incorporated sharon gottlieb santa ana california great lakes creamery of crown point llc florence moos joseph moos valparaiso in miles of smiles incorporated joni hackwell richard hackwell price utah gies lisa lisa gies tucson arizona dreamery creamery group llc salima jiwani sanih jiwani suleman jiwani tucker georgia frassenese llc blake della lucia guy della lucia farmington per ry utah sub verbo dunkirk llc numaan shah syed saif ul islam shah pomfret white plains medicinae doctor costaguys llc mani chalasani naga sai anil kumar veeramachaneni sire esh chigurupati aldie bolingbro ok illinois virginia samad khan rajal patel parul patel parul patel rajal patel samad khan chicago coo keville plainfield illinois tennessee sweet treats corporation olatunji umaru washington district of columbia we have not had any franchisees who have not communicated with us for the week period before the date of this disclosure document. we had three franchisees who had its franchise agreement terminated or canceled during the year ending november for a restaurant that never opened. the name city and state and current business telephone number or if unknown the last known home telephone number of this franchisee is as follows franchisee company name franchisee names city state phone gurpar foods incorporated amit tikyani secaucus new jersey singh komal singh gagandeep prosper texas singh komal singh gagandeep prosper texas if you buy this franchise your contact information may be disclosed to other buyers when you leave the franchise system. in some instances current and former franchisees sign provisions restricting their ability to speak openly about their experience with the cold stone creamery franchise system. you may wish to speak with current and former franchisees but be aware that not all such franchisees will be able to communicate with you. if you are purchasing a company owned outlet from one of our affiliates that was previously owned by a franchisee but is now owned and operated corporately by our affiliate we will provide you with an addendum to this disclosure document disclosing additional information for that outlet for the last five fiscal years. sample form of the addendum is attached to this disclosure document as exhibit. we have a trademark specific franchisee organization associated with the cold stone creamery franchise system it is an elected council that provides advice and guidance to us. the name of the council is the national advisory board nab. the nab was created by cold stone creamery incorporated and is sponsored by us. the nab members are elected by the franchisees as a whole to serve on the nab. the members of the nab can be reached through us at. via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona the email address for the nab is coldstonenab kahalamgmt.com. neither council has a web address. item financial statements attached to this disclosure document as exhibit are the audited consolidated financial statements of franchisor parent company mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated guarantor for the fiscal years ended november and. guarantor absolutely and unconditionally guarantees to assume the duties and obligations of franchisor under its franchise registration in each state where the franchise is registered and under the franchise agreement as it may be amended and as that franchise agreement may be entered into with franchisees and amended modified or extended from time to time. this guarantee continues until all such obligations of the franchisor under its franchise registrations and the franchise agreement are satisfied or until the liability of franchisor to its franchisees under the franchise agreement has been completely discharged whichever first occurs. guarantor is not discharged from liability if a claim by a franchisee against the franchisor remains outstanding. notice of acceptance is waived. guarantor does not waive receipt of notice of default on the part of the franchisor. this guarantee is binding on the guarantor and its successors and assigns. see exhibit performance guaranty. item contracts attached to this disclosure document are the following franchise related contracts exhibit asset purchase agreement for sale of a corporate store to a franchisee with promissory note and security agreement and guaranty if applicable exhibit franchise agreement new exhibit franchise agreement renewal mailto chad.eads coolersouth.com exhibit franchise agreement transfer exhibit guaranty of franchise agreement exhibit non disclosure and non competition agreement exhibit collateral assignment and irrevocable special power of attorney exhibit amendment to franchise agreement for non traditional locations excluding those colorado branded with another affiliated brand exhibit rocky mountain chocolate factory addendum to franchise disclosure document and amendment to franchise agreement exhibit amendment to franchise agreement for colorado branded non traditional locations exhibit in store training release and waiver of liability agreement exhibit addendum to the franchise agreement for sba loans exhibit required lease terms lease addendum to lease agreement exhibit rmcf required lease terms lease addendum to lease agreement exhibit lease guaranty acknowledgment exhibit lease review and or negotiation agreement and release and state addenda exhibit sublease and guaranty of sublease franchisee pays rent directly to landlord exhibit sublease and guaranty of sublease franchisor or its affiliate collects rent from franchisee and pays to landlord exhibit pre authorized electronic funds transfer form exhibit participation agreement exhibit general release for renewal of franchise agreement exhibit consent to transfer and release agreement without sublease exhibit consent to transfer and release agreement with sublease exhibit state addenda to franchise documents exhibit performance guaranty exhibit addendum for sale of company affiliated owned stores exhibit receipts item receipts exhibit to this disclosure document is a detachable receipt. you are to keep one copy and return the other copy to us. exhibit to the franchise disclosure document state addenda to franchise disclosure document addendum to the kahala franchising. disclosure document required by the state of california. the california franchise investment law requires that copy of all proposed agreements relating to the sale of the franchise be delivered together with the disclosure document. neither the franchisor franchise broker nor any person in item of the disclosure document are subject to any currently effective order of any national securities association or national securities exchange as defined in the securities exchange act of. a et seq. suspending or expelling such person from membership in such association or exchange. the franchise agreement provides for termination upon bankruptcy. this provision may not be enforceable under federal bankruptcy law. second et seq. the franchise agreement contains a covenant not to compete which extends beyond the termination of the agreements. this provision may not be enforceable under california law. the franchise agreement requires application of the laws of the state of arizona. this provision may not be enforceable under california law. section of the california corporations code requires us to give you a disclosure document in a form containing the information that the commissioner may by rule or order require before a solicitation of a proposed material modification of an existing franchise. you must sign general release if you renew or transfer your franchise. california corporations code voids waiver of your rights under the franchise investment law california corporations code through. business and professions code voids waiver of your rights under the franchise relations act business and professions code through. california business and professions code sections through provide rights to the franchisee concerning termination or non renewal of a franchise. if the franchise agreement contains a provision that is inconsistent with the law the law will control. if the franchisee resides in the state of california or the franchised business is located within the state of california the venue for any dispute may be within the state of california. business and professions code section. voids restricting a venue to a forum outside california with respect to any claim arising under or relating to a franchise agreement involving a franchise business operating in california. our website has not been reviewed or approved by the california department of business oversight. any complaints concerning the contents of this website may be directed to the california department of business oversight at http. no statement questionnaire or acknowledgment signed or agreed to by a franchisee in connection with the commencement of the franchise relationship shall have the effect of i waiving any claims under any applicable state franchise law including fraud in the inducement or ii disclaiming reliance on any statement made by any franchisor franchise seller or other person acting on behalf of the franchisor. this provision supersedes any other term of any document executed in connection with the franchise. addendum to the kahala franchising. disclosure document required by the state of hawaii these franchises will be have been filed under the franchise investment law of the state of hawaii. filing does not constitute approval recommendation or endorsement by the director of commerce and consumer affairs or a finding by the director of commerce and consumer affairs that the information provided herein is true complete and not misleading. the franchise investment law makes it unlawful to offer or sell any franchise in this state without first providing to the prospective franchisee or subfranchisor at least seven days prior to the execution by the prospective franchisee of any binding franchise or other agreement or at least seven days prior to the payment of any consideration by the franchisee or subfranchisor whichever occurs first a copy of the disclosure document together with a copy of all proposed agreements relating to the sale of the franchise. this disclosure document contains a summary only of certain material provisions of the franchise agreement. the contract or agreement should be referred to for a statement of all rights conditions restrictions and obligations of both the franchisor and the franchisee. federal trade commission rule makes it unlawful to offer or sell any franchise without first providing this disclosure document to the prospective franchisee at the earlier of fourteen calendar days before the signing of any franchise or related agreement or fourteen calendar days before any payment. the prospective franchisee must also receive a franchise agreement containing all material terms at least seven calendar days prior to the signing of the franchise agreement. if this disclosure document is not delivered on time or if it contains a false incomplete inaccurate or misleading statement a violation of federal and state law may have occurred and should be reported to the federal trade commission washington. and to hawaii department of commerce and consumer affairs which administers and enforces the hawaii franchise disclosure act. registered agent in the state authorized to receive service of process department of commerce and consumer affairs business registration division commissioner of securities securities compliance branch merchant street room honolulu hawaii. the following paragraph is added to item section east of the hawaii revised statutes provides that upon termination or refusal to renew the franchise agreement kahala franchising. is obligated to compensate you for the fair market value at the time of the termination or expiration of the franchise agreement of your inventory supplies equipment and furnishings purchased from kahala franchising. or a supplier designated by kahala franchising. provided that personalized materials which have no value to us need not be compensated for. if kahala franchising. refuses to renew a franchise agreement for the purpose of converting your business to one owned and operated by kahala franchising. in addition to the remedies provided above shall compensate you for the loss of goodwill. kahala franchising. may deduct from such compensation reasonable costs incurred in removing transporting and disposing of your inventory supplies equipment and furnishings pursuant to this requirement and may offset from such compensation any monies due kahala franchising. the following list reflects the status of the franchise registration of the franchisor in the states which require registration. the states in which this proposed registration is effective none. the states in which this proposed registration is or will be shortly on file california illinois indiana maryland michigan minnesota new york north dakota rhode island south dakota virginia washington wisconsin. the states if any which have refused by order or otherwise to register these franchises none. the states if any which have revoked or suspended the right to offer these franchises none. the states if any in which the proposed registration of these franchises has been withdrawn by the franchisor none. section east a of the hawaii franchise investment law requires the franchisor to give you a copy of the franchise disclosure document at least calendar days prior to signing the franchise agreement. the receipt is amended to reflect the calendar day waiting period. no statement questionnaire or acknowledgment signed or agreed to by a franchisee in connection with the commencement of the franchise relationship shall have the effect of i waiving any claims under any applicable state franchise law including fraud in the inducement or ii disclaiming reliance on any statement made by any franchisor franchise seller or other person acting on behalf of the franchisor. this provision supersedes any other term of any document executed in connection with the franchise. addendum to the kahala franchising. disclosure document required by the state of illinois. items. and.i are supplemented with the following language the conditions under which your franchise agreement may be terminated and your rights upon non renewal may be affected by illinois law ilcs and. items. and. are supplemented with the following language this summary applies to both the franchise agreement and the area representative agreement. the summary in item. is deleted and replaced by the following summary litigation in illinois. the summary in item. is deleted and replaced by the following summary illinois law applies. section of the illinois franchise disclosure act states that any condition stipulation or provision purporting to bind any person acquiring any franchise to waive compliance with any provision of this act is void. no statement questionnaire or acknowledgment signed or agreed to by a franchisee in connection with the commencement of the franchise relationship shall have the effect of i waiving any claims under any applicable state franchise law including fraud in the inducement or ii disclaiming reliance on any statement made by any franchisor franchise seller or other person acting on behalf of the franchisor. this provision supersedes any other term of any document executed in connection with the franchise. addendum to the kahala franchising. disclosure document required by the state of indiana. item. may be modified by indiana code. the summary in item. is deleted and replaced with the following summary for one year after the termination of your franchise agreement you may not establish a similar type of business within your exclusive territory. item. is supplemented with the following language however you do not waive any rights under the indiana statutes with regard to prior representations made by kahala franchising. in the disclosure document. items. and. are supplemented with the following language except that under indiana law you may have the right to bring an action in indiana and have indiana law apply. the indiana deceptive franchise practices act ic. prohibits the limitation of litigation brought for breach of a franchise agreement including any limitation on the forum chosen. any provision in the franchise agreement specifying a forum contrary to indiana law shall not apply to any claims brought under the indiana deceptive franchise practices act and or the indiana franchise act industry code annual the indiana deceptive franchise practices act ic. prohibits the limitation of litigation brought for breach of a franchise agreement. any provision in the franchise agreement requiring the application of another state law shall not apply to any claims brought under the indiana deceptive franchise practices act and or the indiana franchise act industry code annual indiana code. requires a franchisor to give you a copy of the franchise disclosure document at the earlier of i days prior to signing the franchise agreement or ii days prior to franchisor receipt of any consideration. the receipt is amended to reflect the day waiting period. no statement questionnaire or acknowledgment signed or agreed to by a franchisee in connection with the commencement of the franchise relationship shall have the effect of i waiving any claims under any applicable state franchise law including fraud in the inducement or ii disclaiming reliance on any statement made by any franchisor franchise seller or other person acting on behalf of the franchisor. this provision supersedes any other term of any document executed in connection with the franchise. addendum to the kahala franchising. disclosure document required by the state of maryland. item of the franchise disclosure document and all agreements in this offering are amended to disclose the following based upon the franchisor financial condition the maryland securities commissioner has required a financial assurance. therefore all initial fees and payments owed by franchisees shall be deferred until the franchisor completes its pre opening obligations under the franchise agreement. the following amends item and replaces the last sentence of paragraph.a under the section titled during the operation of the franchised business franchisee may at any time after days following the end of the calendar year obtain an accounting of expenditures for the advertising fund and any cooperative regional funds for the entire preceding calendar year by submitting a written request to kahala franchising. chief financial officer at the principal business address listed in item of the franchise disclosure document. the summary in item. is deleted and the following summary is inserted in its place franchisee may file a civil lawsuit in maryland for claims arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. any claims arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law must be brought within three years after the grant of the franchise. item is amended to disclose the following any general release required as a condition of renewal sale and or assignment transfer shall not apply to any liability under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. the following paragraph is added to the end of item the franchise agreement provides for termination upon franchisee bankruptcy. this provision may not be enforceable under federal bankruptcy law. section et seq. item is amended to disclose the following this franchise agreement provides that disputes are resolved through arbitration. maryland franchise regulation states that it is an unfair or deceptive practice to require a franchisee to waive its right to file a lawsuit in maryland claiming a violation of the maryland franchise law. in light of the federal arbitration act there is some dispute as to whether this forum selection requirement is legally enforceable. no statement questionnaire or acknowledgment signed or agreed to by a franchisee in connection with the commencement of the franchise relationship shall have the effect of i waiving any claims under any applicable state franchise law including fraud in the inducement or ii disclaiming reliance on any statement made by any franchisor franchise seller or other person acting on behalf of the franchisor. this provision supersedes any other term of any document executed in connection with the franchise. addendum to kahala franchising. disclosure document for the state of michigan section. of the michigan franchise investment law requires franchisor to give you a copy of the franchise disclosure document earlier of i business days prior to signing the agreement or ii business days prior to franchisor receipt of any consideration. the state of michigan prohibits certain unfair provisions that are sometimes in franchise documents. if any of the following provisions are in these franchise documents the provisions are void and cannot be enforced against you prohibition on the right of a franchisee to join an association of franchisees. requirement that a franchisee assent to a release assignment novation waiver or estoppel which deprives a franchisee of rights and protections provided in this act. this shall not preclude a franchisee after entering into a franchise agreement from settling any and all claims. provision that permits a franchisor to terminate a franchise agreement prior to the expiration of its term except for good cause. good cause shall include the failure of the franchisee to comply with any lawful provision of the franchise agreement and to cure such failure after being given written notice thereof and a reasonable opportunity which in no event need be more than days to cure such failure. provision that permits a franchisor to refuse to renew a franchise agreement without fairly compensating the franchisee by repurchase or other means for the fair market value at the time of expiration of the franchisee inventory supplies equipment fixtures and furnishings. personalized materials which have no value to the franchisor and inventory supplies equipment fixtures and furnishings not reasonably required in the conduct of the franchised business are not subject to compensation. this subsection applies only if i the term of the franchise agreement is less than five years and ii the franchisee is prohibited by the franchise agreement or other agreement from continuing to conduct substantially the same business under another trademark service mark trade name logotype advertising or other commercial symbol in the same area subsequent to the expiration of the franchise agreement or the franchisee does not receive at least six months advance notice of franchisor intent not to renew the franchise agreement. provision that permits the franchisor to refuse to renew a franchise agreement on terms generally available to other franchisees of the same class or type under similar circumstances. this section does not require a renewal provision. provision requiring that arbitration or litigation be conducted outside this state. this shall not preclude the franchisee from entering into an agreement at the time of arbitration to conduct arbitration at a location outside this state. provision which permits a franchisor to refuse to permit a transfer of ownership of a franchise except for good cause. this subdivision does not prevent a franchisor from exercising a right of first refusal to purchase the franchise. good cause shall include but is not limited to i the failure of the proposed transferee to meet the franchisor then current reasonable qualifications or standards. ii the fact that the proposed transferee is a competitor of the franchisor or subfranchisor. iii the unwillingness of the proposed transferee to agree in writing to comply with all lawful obligations. iv the failure of the franchisee or proposed transferee to pay any sums owing to the franchisor or to cure any default in the franchise agreement existing at the time of the proposed transfer. provision that requires the franchisee to resell to the franchisor items that are not uniquely identified with the franchisor. this subdivision does not prohibit a provision that grants to a franchisor a right of first refusal to purchase the assets of a franchise on the same terms and conditions as a bona fide third party willing and able to purchase those assets nor does this subdivision prohibit a provision that grants the franchisor the right to acquire the assets of a franchise for the market or appraised value of such assets if the franchisee has breached the lawful provisions of the franchise agreement and has failed to cure the breach in the manner provided in subdivision. provision which permits the franchisor to directly or indirectly convey assign or otherwise transfer its obligations to fulfill contractual obligations to the franchisee unless provision has been made for providing the required contractual services. no statement questionnaire or acknowledgment signed or agreed to by a franchisee in connection with the commencement of the franchise relationship shall have the effect of i waiving any claims under any applicable state franchise law including fraud in the inducement or ii disclaiming reliance on any statement made by any franchisor franchise seller or other person acting on behalf of the franchisor. this provision supersedes any other term of any document executed in connection with the franchise. the fact that there is notice of this offering on file with the attorney general does not constitute approval recommendation or endorsement by the attorney general. any questions regarding this notice shall be directed to state of michigan department of the attorney general attention franchise section. box lansing michigan addendum to the kahala franchising. disclosure document required by the state of minnesota. the following legends are added to the risk factors on the cover page these franchises have been registered under the minnesota franchise act. registration does not constitute approval recommendation or endorsement by the commissioner of securities of minnesota or finding by the commissioner that the information provided herein is true complete and not misleading. the minnesota franchise act makes it unlawful to offer or sell any franchise in this state which is subject to registration without first providing to the prospective franchisee at least days prior to the payment of any consideration by the franchisee whichever occurs first copy of this public offering statement together with copy of all proposed agreements relating to the franchise. this public offering statement contains summary only of certain material provisions of the franchise agreement. the contract or agreement should be referred to for an understanding of all rights and obligations of both the franchisor and the franchisee. if this disclosure document is not delivered on time or if it contains false incomplete inaccurate or misleading statement violation of federal and state law may have occurred and should be reported to the federal trade commission washington. and to the commissioner of securities department of commerce securities division th place east suite street paul minnesota which administers and enforces the minnesota franchise act. pursuant to minnesota rules. in item the table entry in the second column pertaining to amount for non sufficient funds fee is hereby deleted and replaced with the following for each electronic funds transfer returned for non sufficient funds for each check or draft returned for non sufficient funds. the following paragraph is added to item the franchisor will protect the franchisee rights to use the trademarks service marks trade names logotypes or other commercial symbols or indemnify the franchisee from any loss costs or expenses arising out of any claim suit or demand regarding the use of the name. minnesota considers it unfair to not protect the franchisee right to use the trademarks. refer to minnesota statues section circa subd. the following statement is added at the end of item. and. minnesota rules. prohibits a franchisor from requiring a franchisee to assent to a general release. the following statement is added at the end of. and. minnesota statutes section circa and minnesota rules. prohibit the franchisor from requiring litigation to be conducted outside minnesota requiring waiver of a jury trial or requiring the franchisee to consent to liquidated damages termination penalties or judgment notes. in addition nothing in the franchise disclosure document or agreement can abrogate or reduce any of the franchisee rights as provided for in minnesota statutes chapter county or franchisee rights to any procedure forum or remedies provided for by the laws of the jurisdiction. the franchisee cannot consent to the franchisor obtaining injunctive relief. the franchisor may seek injunctive relief. see minn. rules. j also a court will determine if a bond is required. the following statement is added at the end of item with respect to franchises governed by minnesota law the franchisor will comply with minnesota statutes section circa subd. which require except in certain specified cases that a franchisee be given days notice of termination with days to cure and days notice for non renewal of the franchise agreement and that consent to the transfer of the franchise will not be unreasonably withheld. the summary in item. is deleted and the following summary is inserted in its place the limitations of claims section must comply with minnesota statutes section circa subd. no statement questionnaire or acknowledgment signed or agreed to by a franchisee in connection with the commencement of the franchise relationship shall have the effect of i waiving any claims under any applicable state franchise law including fraud in the inducement or ii disclaiming reliance on any statement made by any franchisor franchise seller or other person acting on behalf of the franchisor. this provision supersedes any other term of any document executed in connection with the franchise. addendum to the kahala franchising. disclosure document required by the state of new york. the following information is added to the cover page of the franchise disclosure document information comparing franchisors is available. call the state administrators listed in exhibit or your public library for sources of information. registration of this franchise by new york state does not mean that new york state recommends it or has verified the information in this disclosure document. if you learn that anything in the disclosure document is untrue contact the federal trade commission and new york state department of law bureau of investor protection and securities broadway road floor new york new york. the following is added at the end of item except as provided above with regard to the franchisor its predecessor a person identified in item or an affiliate offering franchises under the franchisor principal trademark. no such party has an administrative criminal or civil action pending against that person alleging a felony a violation of a franchise antitrust or securities law fraud embezzlement fraudulent conversion misappropriation of property unfair or deceptive practices or comparable civil or misdemeanor allegations. no such party has pending actions other than routine litigation incidental to the business which are significant in the context of the number of franchisees and the size nature or financial condition of the franchise system or its business operations. no such party has been convicted of a felony or pleaded nolo contendere to a felony charge or within the year period immediately preceding the application for registration has been convicted of or pleaded nolo contendere to a misdemeanor charge or has been the subject of a civil action alleging violation of a franchise antifraud or securities law fraud embezzlement fraudulent conversion or misappropriation of property or unfair or deceptive practices or comparable allegations. no such party is subject to a currently effective injunctive or restrictive order or decree relating to the franchise or under a federal state or canadian franchise securities antitrust trade regulation or trade practice law resulting from a concluded or pending action or proceeding brought by a public agency or is subject to any currently effective order of any national securities association or national securities exchange as defined in the securities and exchange act of suspending or expelling such person from membership in such association or exchange or is subject to a currently effective injunctive or restrictive order relating to any other business activity as a result of an action brought by a public agency or department including without limitation actions affecting a license as a real estate broker or sales agent. the following is added to the end of item the initial franchise fee constitutes part of our general operating funds and will be used as such in our discretion. the following is added to the end of the summary sections of item titled requirements for franchisee to renew or extend and item entitled conditions for franchisor approval of transfer however to the extent required by applicable law all rights you enjoy and any causes of action arising in your favor from the provisions of article of the general business law of the state of new york and the regulations issued thereunder shall remain in force it being the intent of this proviso that the non waiver provisions of general business law sections. and. be satisfied. the following language replaces the summary section of item titled termination by franchisee you may terminate the agreement on any grounds available by law. the following is added to the end of the summary sections of item titled choice of forum and item titled choice of law the foregoing choice of law should not be considered a waiver of any right conferred upon the franchisor or upon the franchisee by article of the general business law of the state of new york. the franchisor may if it chooses negotiate with you about items covered in the prospectus. however the franchisor cannot use the negotiating process to prevail upon a prospective franchisee to accept terms which are less favorable than those set forth in this prospectus. the franchise agreement and the other documents to be signed by the franchisee provide that we do not grant you any exclusive or protected territory for your restaurant. the franchise agreement and the other documents to be signed by you further allow the franchisor to locate franchised or corporate owned locations of food concepts similar to cold stone creamery in the immediate vicinity of your restaurant. there may also be locations of food concepts similar to cold stone creamery that are owned by affiliates of the franchisor already open and operating in the immediate vicinity of your restaurant. section. of the general business law of the state of new york requires franchisor to give you a copy of the franchise disclosure document at the earlier of i the first personal meeting ii business days before the execution of the franchise agreement or iii business days before the payment of any consideration that relates to the franchise relationship. factors to be considered any disputes differences or controversies that arise pursuant to the franchise agreement or breach thereof which cannot be settled by mediation shall be settled by arbitration. all such proceedings shall be held in maricopa county arizona. this information should be taken into consideration in determining whether or not to purchase this franchise. the franchisor represents that this prospectus does not knowingly omit any material fact or contain any untrue statement of a material fact. no statement questionnaire or acknowledgment signed or agreed to by a franchisee in connection with the commencement of the franchise relationship shall have the effect of i waiving any claims under any applicable state franchise law including fraud in the inducement or ii disclaiming reliance on any statement made by any franchisor franchise seller or other person acting on behalf of the franchisor. this provision supersedes any other term of any document executed in connection with the franchise addendum to the kahala franchising. disclosure document required by the state of north dakota although these franchises have been registered under the franchise investment law of the state of north dakota registration does not constitute approval recommendation or endorsement by the state of north dakota that the information provided in this disclosure document is true complete accurate or not misleading. north dakota law modifications. the north dakota securities commissioner requires that certain provisions contained in franchise documents be amended to be consistent with north dakota law including the north dakota franchise investment law north dakota century code annotated chapter sections through. to the extent that the franchise agreement contains provisions that are inconsistent with the following such provisions are hereby amended a if the franchisee is required in the franchise agreement to execute a release of claims or to acknowledge facts that would negate or remove from judicial review any statement misrepresentation or action that would violate the law or a rule or order under the law such release shall exclude claims arising under the north dakota franchise investment law and such acknowledgements shall be void with respect to claims under the law. covenants not to compete during the term and upon termination or expiration of the franchise agreement are enforceable only under certain conditions according to north dakota law. if the franchise agreement contains a covenant not to compete which is inconsistent with north dakota law the covenant may be unenforceable. if the franchise agreement requires litigation to be conducted in a forum other than the state of north dakota the requirement is void with respect to claims under the north dakota franchise investment law. if the franchise agreement requires that it be governed by a state law other than the state of north dakota to the extent that such law conflicts with the north dakota franchise investment law the north dakota franchise investment law will control. if the franchise agreement requires mediation or arbitration to be conducted in a forum other than the state of north dakota the requirement may be unenforceable under the north dakota franchise investment law. arbitration involving a franchise purchased in the state of north dakota must be held either in a location mutually agreed upon prior to the arbitration or if the parties cannot agree on a location the location will be determined by the arbitrator. if the franchise agreement requires payment of a termination penalty the requirement may be unenforceable under the north dakota franchise investment law. section of the north dakota franchise investment law requires franchisor to give you a copy of the franchise disclosure document at the earlier of i seven days prior to signing the franchise agreement or ii seven days prior to franchisor receipt of any consideration. the securities commissioner has held the following to be unfair unjust or inequitable to north dakota franchisees section. restrictive covenants franchise disclosure documents which disclose the existence of covenants restricting competition contrary to section. without further disclosing that such covenants will be subject to the statute. situs of arbitration proceedings franchise agreements providing that the parties must agree to the arbitration of disputes at a location that is remote from the site of the franchisee business. restrictions on forum requiring north dakota franchisees to consent to the jurisdiction of courts outside of north dakota. liquidated damages and termination penalties requiring north dakota franchisees to consent to liquidated damages or termination penalties. applicable laws franchise agreements which specify that they are to be governed by the laws of a state other than north dakota. waiver of trial by jury requiring north dakota franchises to consent to the waiver of a trial by jury. waiver of exemplary punitive damages requiring north dakota franchisees to consent to a waiver of exemplary and punitive damage. general release franchise agreements that require the franchisee to sign a general release upon renewal of the franchise agreement. limitation of claims franchise agreements that require the franchisee to consent to a limitation of claims. the statute of limitations under north dakota law applies. enforcement of agreement franchise agreements that require the franchisee to pay all costs and expenses incurred by the franchisor in enforcing the agreement. the prevailing party in any enforcement action is entitled to recover all costs and expenses including attorney fees. each provision of this amendment shall be effective only to the extent that the jurisdictional requirements of the north dakota franchise investment law with respect to each such provision are met independent of this amendment. this amendment shall have no force or effect if such jurisdictional requirements are not met. no statement questionnaire or acknowledgment signed or agreed to by a franchisee in connection with the commencement of the franchise relationship shall have the effect of i waiving any claims under any applicable state franchise law including fraud in the inducement or ii disclaiming reliance on any statement made by any franchisor franchise seller or other person acting on behalf of the franchisor. this provision supersedes any other term of any document executed in connection with the franchise. addendum to the kahala franchising. disclosure document required by the state of rhode island rhode island law modifications. the rhode island securities division requires that certain provisions contained in franchise documents be amended to be consistent with rhode island law including the franchise investment act. gen. law. ch. second to the extent that the franchise agreement contains provisions that are inconsistent with the following such provisions are hereby amended a if the franchise agreement restricts jurisdiction or venue to a forum other than the state of rhode island the requirement is void under rhode island franchise investment act second if the franchise agreement requires that it be governed by a state law other than the state of rhode island to the extent that such law conflicts with rhode island franchise investment act it is void under second if the franchisee is required in the franchise agreement to execute a release of claims or to acknowledge facts that would negate or remove from judicial review any statement misrepresentation or action that would violate the act or a rule or order under the act such release shall exclude claims arising under the rhode island franchise investment act and such acknowledgements shall be void with respect to claims under the act. each provision of this amendment shall be effective only to the extent that the jurisdictional requirements of the rhode island franchise investment act with respect to each such provision are met independent of this amendment. this amendment shall have no force or effect if such jurisdictional requirements are not met. no statement questionnaire or acknowledgment signed or agreed to by a franchisee in connection with the commencement of the franchise relationship shall have the effect of i waiving any claims under any applicable state franchise law including fraud in the inducement or ii disclaiming reliance on any statement made by any franchisor franchise seller or other person acting on behalf of the franchisor. this provision supersedes any other term of any document executed in connection with the franchise. addendum to kahala franchising. disclosure document for the state of south dakota. the director of the south dakota division of securities requires that certain provisions contained in franchise documents be amended to be consistent with south dakota law including the south dakota franchise investment law south dakota codified laws title chapter b sections b through b to the extent that the agreement contains provisions that are inconsistent with the following such provisions are hereby amended a if the franchisee is required in the agreement to execute a release of claims or to acknowledge facts that would negate or remove from judicial review any statement misrepresentation or action that would violate the law or a rule or order under the law such release shall exclude claims arising under the south dakota franchise investment law and such acknowledgements shall be void with respect to claims under the law. covenants not to compete upon termination or expiration of the agreement are generally unenforceable in the state of south dakota except in certain limited instances as provided by law. if this agreement contains a covenant not to compete which is inconsistent with south dakota law the covenant may be unenforceable. regardless of the terms of the agreement concerning termination if franchisee fails to meet performance and quality standards or fails to make any royalty payments under the agreement franchisee will be afforded thirty days written notice with an opportunity to cure the default before termination. if the agreement requires payment of liquidated damages that are inconsistent with south dakota law the liquidated damage clause may be void under sdcl. if the agreement requires litigation to be conducted in a forum other than the state of south dakota the requirement is void with respect to any cause of action otherwise enforceable under south dakota law. if the agreement requires that it be governed by a state law other than the state of south dakota matters regarding franchise registration employment covenants not to compete and other matters of local concern will be governed by the laws of the state of south dakota but as to contractual and all other matters the agreement and all provisions of this amendment will be and remain subject to the application construction enforcement interpretation under the governing law set forth in the agreement. if the agreement requires that disputed between franchisor and franchisee be mediated arbitrated at a location that is outside the state of south dakota the mediation arbitration will be conducted at a location mutually agreed upon by the parties. if the parties cannot agree on location for the mediation arbitration the location shall be determined by the mediator arbitrator selected. any condition stipulation or provision in the agreement requiring franchisee to waive compliance of a provision under the south dakota franchise investment law is void. each provision of this addendum shall be effective only to the extent that the jurisdictional requirements of the south dakota franchise investment law with respect to each such provision are met independent of this addendum. this addendum shall have no force or effect if such jurisdictional requirements are not met. no statement questionnaire or acknowledgment signed or agreed to by a franchisee in connection with the commencement of the franchise relationship shall have the effect of i waiving any claims under any applicable state franchise law including fraud in the inducement or ii disclaiming reliance on any statement made by any franchisor franchise seller or other person acting on behalf of the franchisor. this provision supersedes any other term of any document executed in connection with the franchise. addendum to kahala franchising. disclosure document for the state of virginia. the following amends item and is stated at the end of item pursuant to section. of the virginia retail franchising act it is unlawful for a franchisor to cancel a franchise without reasonable cause. if any grounds for default or termination stated in the franchise agreement does not constitute reasonable cause as that term may be defined in the virginia retail franchising act or the laws of virginia that provision may not be enforceable. no statement questionnaire or acknowledgment signed or agreed to by a franchisee in connection with the commencement of the franchise relationship shall have the effect of i waiving any claims under any applicable state franchise law including fraud in the inducement or ii disclaiming reliance on any statement made by any franchisor franchise seller or other person acting on behalf of the franchisor. this provision supersedes any other term of any document executed in connection with the franchise. addendum to the kahala franchising. disclosure document required by the state of washington the state of washington has a statue rcw. which may supersede the franchise agreement in your relationship with the franchisor including the areas of termination and renewal of your franchise agreement. there may also be court decisions which may supersede the franchise agreement in your relationship with the franchisor including the areas of termination and renewal of your franchise agreement. if any provisions governing termination or non renewal disclosed herein are inconsistent with washington law then washington law shall apply. the applicable law reads as follows section. without limiting the other provisions of this chapter the following specific rights and prohibitions shall govern the relation between the franchisor or subfranchisor and the franchisees for the purpose of this chapter and without limiting its general application it shall be an unfair or deceptive act or practice or an unfair method of competition and therefore unlawful and violation of this chapter for any person to a restrict or inhibit the right of the franchisees to join an association of franchisees. require a franchisee to purchase or lease goods or services of the franchisor or from approved sources of supply unless and to the extent that the franchisor satisfies the burden of proving that such restrictive purchasing agreements are reasonably necessary for a lawful purpose justified on business grounds and do not substantially affect competition provided that this provision shall not apply to the initial inventory of the franchise. in determining whether a requirement to purchase or lease goods or services constitutes an unfair or deceptive act or practice or an unfair method of competition the courts shall be guided by the decisions of the courts of the united states interpreting and applying the anti trust laws of the united states. discriminate between franchisees in the charges offered or made for royalties goods services equipment rentals advertising services or in any other business dealing unless and to the extent that the franchisor satisfies the burden of proving that any classification of or discrimination between franchisees is i reasonable ii based on franchises granted at materially different times and such discrimination is reasonably related to such difference in time or is based on other proper and justifiable distinctions considering the purposes of this chapter and iii is not arbitrary. however nothing in of this subsection precludes negotiation of the terms and conditions of a franchise at the initiative of the franchisees. sell rent or offer to sell to a franchisee any product or service for more than a fair and reasonable price. obtain money goods services anything of value or any other benefit from any other person with whom the franchisee does business on account of such business unless such benefit is disclosed to the franchisee. if the franchise provides that the franchisee has an exclusive territory which exclusive territory shall be specified in the franchise agreement for the franchisor or subfranchisor to compete with the franchisee in an exclusive territory or to grant competitive franchises in the exclusive territory area previously granted to another franchisee. require franchisee to assent to a release assignment novation or waiver which would relieve any person from liability imposed by this chapter except as otherwise permitted by rcw. http app.leg.wa.gov rcw default.aspx?cite. impose on a franchisee by contract rule or regulation whether written or oral any standard of conduct unless the person so doing can sustain the burden of proving such to be reasonable and necessary. i refuse to renew a franchise agreement without fairly compensating the franchisee for the fair market value at the time of expiration of the franchise agreement or the franchisee inventory supplies equipment and furnishings purchased from the franchisor and good will exclusive of personalized materials which have no value to the franchisor and inventory supplies equipment and furnishings not reasonably required in the conduct of the franchised business provided that compensation need not be made to a franchisee for good will if i the franchisee has been given one year notice of nonrenewal and ii the franchisor agrees in writing not to enforce any covenant which restrains the franchisee from competing with the franchisor provided further that a franchisor may offset against amounts owed to a franchisee under this subsection any amounts owed by such franchisee to franchisor. terminate a franchise prior to the expiration of its term except for good cause. good cause shall include without limitation the failure of the franchisee to comply with lawful material provisions of the franchise or other agreement between the franchisor and the franchisee and to cure such default after being given written notice thereof and a reasonable opportunity which in no event need be more than thirty days to cure such default or if such default cannot reasonably be cured within thirty days the failure of the franchisee to initiate within thirty days substantial and continuing action to cure such default provided that after three willful and material breaches of the same term of the franchise agreement occurring within a twelve month period for which the franchisee has been given notice and an opportunity to cure as provided in this subsection the franchisor may terminate the franchise agreement upon any subsequent month period without providing notice or opportunity cure provided further that a franchisor may terminate a franchise agreement without prior notice or opportunity to cure a default if the franchisee i is adjudicated bankrupt or insolvent ii makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors or similar disposition of the assets of the franchised business iii voluntarily abandons the franchised business or iv is convicted of or pleads guilty or no contest to a charge of violating any law relating to the franchised business. upon termination for good cause the franchisor shall purchase from the franchisee at a fair market value at the time of termination the franchisee inventory and supplies exclusive of i personalized materials which have no value to the franchisor ii inventory and supplies not reasonably required in the conduct of the franchised business and iii if the franchisee is to retain control of the premises of the franchised business any inventory and supplies not purchased from the franchisor or on his express requirement provided that a franchisor may offset against amounts owed to a franchisee under this subsection any amounts owed by such franchisee to the franchisor. in the event of a conflict of laws the provisions of the washington franchise investment protection act chapter. rcw shall prevail. release or waiver of rights executed by a franchisee shall not include rights under the washington franchise investment protection act except when executed pursuant to a negotiated settlement after the agreement is in effect and where the parties are represented by independent counsel. provisions such as those which unreasonably restrict or limit the statute of limitations period for claims under the act rights or remedies under the act such as a right to a jury trial may not be enforceable. transfer fees are collectable to the extent that they reflect the franchisor reasonable estimated or actual costs in effecting a transfer. ranch incorporated and its subsidiaries all affiliates of kahala franchising. filed for bankruptcy protection code chapter of the united states bankruptcy code on july. full disclosure of the particulars of this filing is in item of this disclosure document. no statement questionnaire or acknowledgment signed or agreed to by a franchisee in connection with the commencement of the franchise relationship shall have the effect of i waiving any claims under any applicable state franchise law including fraud in the inducement or ii disclaiming reliance on any statement made by any franchisor franchise seller or other person acting on behalf of the franchisor. this provision supersedes any other term of any document executed in connection with the franchise. addendum to the kahala franchising. disclosure document required by the state of wisconsin these franchises have been registered under the wisconsin franchise investment law. registration does not constitute approval recommendation or endorsement by the commissioner that the information provided herein is true complete and not misleading. wisconsin law modifications. the securities commissioner of the state of wisconsin requires that certain provisions contained in franchise documents be amended to be consistent with wisconsin fair dealership law wisconsin statutes chapter fair dealership law and the wisconsin franchise investment law chapter. to the extent that the franchise agreement contains provisions that are inconsistent with the following such provisions are hereby amended a the wisconsin fair dealership law among other things grants you the right in most circumstances to days prior written notice of non renewal and days within which to remedy any claimed deficiencies. if the franchise agreement contains a provision that is inconsistent with the wisconsin fair dealership law the provisions of the franchise agreement shall be superseded by the law requirements and shall have no force or effect. the wisconsin fair dealership law among other things grants you the right in most circumstances to days prior written notice of termination and days within which to remedy any claimed deficiencies. if the franchise agreement contains a provision that is inconsistent with the wisconsin fair dealership law the provisions of the franchise agreement shall be superseded by the law requirements and shall have no force or effect. if the franchise agreement requires that it be governed by a state law other than the state of wisconsin to the extent that any provision of the franchise agreement conflicts with the wisconsin fair dealership law such provision shall be superseded by the law requirements. any condition stipulation or provision in the agreement requiring franchisee to waive compliance with any provision under the wisconsin franchise investment law may be void. each provision of this amendment shall be effective only to the extent that the jurisdictional requirements of the wisconsin law applicable to the provision are met independent of this amendment. this amendment shall have no force or effect if such jurisdictional requirements are not met. no statement questionnaire or acknowledgment signed or agreed to by a franchisee in connection with the commencement of the franchise relationship shall have the effect of i waiving any claims under any applicable state franchise law including fraud in the inducement or ii disclaiming reliance on any statement made by any franchisor franchise seller or other person acting on behalf of the franchisor. this provision supersedes any other term of any document executed in connection with the franchise. exhibit to the franchise disclosure document directory of state agencies and administrators phx docs. directory of state agencies and administrators california department of business oversight west th street suite los angeles california hawaii department of commerce and consumer affairs business registration division commissioner of securities king kalakaua building merchant street room honolulu hawaii illinois illinois attorney general office franchise bureau south second street springfield illinois indiana indiana secretary of state securities division. washington street room east indianapolis in maryland office of the attorney general securities division street paul place baltimore maryland michigan michigan department of attorney general corporate oversight division. mennen williams building. ottawa street lansing michigan minnesota minnesota department of commerce th place east suite saint paul minnesota new york office of the attorney general new york state department of law investor protection bureau liberty street new york new york north dakota securities commissioner. boulevard avenue state capitol th floor bismarck north dakota rhode island department of business regulation securities division franchise section pontiac avenue building cranston rhode island south dakota division of insurance securities regulation. euclid avenue north dakota floor pierre south dakota virginia state corporation commission division of securities and retail franchising. box richmond virginia washington department of financial institutions securities division israel road south-west tumwater washington wisconsin state of wisconsin department of financial institutions division of securities madison yards way north tower madison wisconsin exhibit to the franchise disclosure document franchisor agent for service of process franchisor agent for service of process arizona court corporation system north central avenue suite phoenix arizona new york secretary of state one commerce plaza washington avenue albany new york california commissioner of business oversight west th street suite los angeles california north dakota securities commissioner. boulevard avenue state capital th floor bismarck north dakota hawaii commissioner of securities king kalakua building merchant street room honolulu hawaii rhode island director of the rhode island department of business regulation securities division franchise section pontiac avenue building cranston rhode island illinois illinois attorney general south second street springfield illinois south dakota division of insurance securities regulation. euclid avenue suite pierre south dakota indiana secretary of state. washington street room east indianapolis in virginia clerk of the state corporation commission tyler building east main street richmond virginia maryland maryland securities commissioner street paul place baltimore maryland washington director of financial institutions israel road south-west tumwater washington minnesota minnesota department of commerce th place east suite saint paul minnesota wisconsin administrator department of financial institutions division of securities madison yards way north tower madison wisconsin if a state is not listed kahala franchising. has not appointed an agent for service of process in that state in connection with the requirements of franchise laws. there may be states in addition to those listed above in which kahala franchising. has appointed an agent for service of process. there may also be additional agents appointed in some of the states listed. store document exhibit to the franchise disclosure document asset purchase agreement for sale of a corporate store to a franchisee with promissory note and security agreement and guaranty if applicable store document of asset purchase agreement this asset purchase agreement agreement dated execution date and which will be effective as of the closing date as defined in section a below is by and between selling entity a state corporation limited liability company et cetera liquor license enitity if applicable seller or as may be applicable the seller parties and a state corporation limited liability company et cetera purchaser. seller or as applicable the seller parties and purchaser may also be referred to in this agreement each individually as a party and collectively as the parties. recitals. seller owns certain assets of maintains certain licenses of and operates cold stone creamery restaurant number franchised business located at store address city and state premises. liquor license enitity if applicable owns certain assets of and maintains certain licenses of the franchised business and executed a master lease with respect to the premises. leasing entity a affiliated with seller sublessor has executed a lease with respect to the premises. month to month language if applicable notwithstanding the foregoing the lease agreement is currently on a month to month basis and purchaser is currently in direct negotiations with the landlord for the premises to enter into a new lease directly with the landlord. upon execution of said newly negotiated lease the lease agreement shall be terminated and become null and void. seller desires to sell and transfer to purchaser and purchaser desires to purchase and acquire from seller substantially all of the assets owned by seller and to be used in connection with the operation of the franchised business. in conjunction with the execution of this agreement purchaser executed a franchise agreement as amended to be effective as of the closing date collectively the franchise agreement with kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company affiliated with seller franchisor. in conjunction with the execution of this agreement purchaser executed a sublease to be effective as of the closing date sublease agreement with sublessor and shall comply with all terms and conditions in the sublease including but not limited to paying any additional security deposits if required. month to month language if applicable notwithstanding the foregoing the sublease agreement is currently on a month to month basis and may be terminated by sublessor with thirty days prior written notice to purchaser. as stated above purchaser is currently in direct negotiations with the landlord for the premises to enter into a new lease directly with the landlord and upon execution of said newly negotiated lease the sublease agreement shall be terminated and become null and void. agreement now therefore in consideration of the foregoing promises and the mutual covenants and store document of agreements contained herein the parties hereby agree as follows. sale of assets. a the transferred assets. on the closing date as defined in section a below seller shall sell transfer convey assign and deliver to purchaser and purchaser shall purchase and acquire from seller all of the furniture fixtures and equipment and other items owned by seller and to be used in connection with the franchised business excluding cash company record books and tax records collectively transferred assets and to seller knowledge free and clear of all liens claims charges encumbrances and security interests of any nature or type whatsoever or subject to the terms of the franchise agreement. list of the transferred assets is attached hereto as schedule to exhibit. seller makes no representation or warranty express or implied regarding the merchantability of the transferred assets or the condition or quality thereof and hereby expressly disclaims any implied warranty of merchantability or of fitness for particular purpose and the parties hereby agree that the transferred assets are being purchased in as as is condition. each reference in this agreement to the transferred assets of the franchised business shall mean and refer to the following i all of the fixtures equipment signs and other tangible assets of the franchised business equipment as more fully described on schedule attached to this agreement and incorporated into this agreement by reference. ii if liquor license the state of state agency name liquor license number issued on and maintained by entity and used by entity in the operation of the franchised business license to the extent that such license is fully transferable or partially transferable in connection with purchaser securing its own continuing operations permit or something similar with the state agency name. excluded assets. the following assets shall be excluded from this transaction excluded assets i all cash in any safe located at the franchised business or any cash in banks and or other financial institution accounts associated with the franchised business. ii the business records which relate to the operations of the franchised business for all periods prior to the date immediately preceding the closing date business records. iii all refunds of federal state or local income or franchise taxes or worker compensation insurance premiums due to either seller party as may be applicable as of the date immediately preceding the closing date. iv all intellectual property rights of either seller party and or franchisor as applicable. inventory. the purchase price as defined in section does not include i consumable inventory including food products perishables and paper products or ii cash on hand. store document of. purchase price. a in consideration of the sale of the transferred assets purchaser shall pay simultaneously with the execution and delivery of this agreement the purchase price as defined in section below by electronic funds transfer wire transfer or cashiers or certified check of immediately available funds. or simultaneously with the execution and delivery of this agreement the purchase price as defined in section below payable as set forth in the attached promissory note deferred payment. or i simultaneously with the execution and delivery of this agreement a non refundable deposit in the amount of xx thousand dollars xx deposit by electronic funds transfer wire transfer or cashiers or certified check of immediately available funds and ii on the closing date an amount equal to the difference between the purchase price as defined in section below minus the deposit such difference is referred to as purchase price balance by electronic funds transfer wire transfer or cashiers or certified check of immediately available funds. or on the closing date xx thousand dollars xx deferred payment payable as set forth in the attached promissory note. the purchase price is xx thousand dollars xx which shall be allocated as follows i xx thousand dollars xx to the leasehold improvements at the premises ii xx thousand dollars xx to the transferred assets including all furniture fixtures and equipment as more fully described in schedule to the bill of sale attached hereto as exhibit and incorporated herein by reference. representations and warranties. a to induce purchaser to enter into this agreement and to perform purchaser obligations hereunder and with full knowledge that purchaser will rely thereon seller represents and warrants as follows i seller has title to and rightful possession to the transferred assets and each of the transferred assets is and shall upon the delivery thereof to purchaser be free and clear of recorded and publicly available liens claims charges encumbrances and security interests. ii seller is a limited liability company duly organized validly existing and in good standing under the law of the state of state. iii seller has full right power and authority to execute and deliver this store document of agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby. iv this agreement has been duly executed and delivered by seller and constitutes the legal valid and binding obligation of seller enforceable against seller in accordance with its terms. neither the execution and delivery of this agreement nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby will conflict with violate or result in a breach of or default under with or without the giving of notice or the passage of time or both a any license instrument contract or agreement to which seller is a party or by which seller is bound or the articles of incorporation or the bylaws of seller. neither the execution and delivery of this agreement nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby will result in the creation of any lien claim charge encumbrance or security interest of any nature or type whatsoever with respect to the transferred assets. neither the execution and delivery of this agreement nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby will require any consent or approval of or any filing with any governmental entity or other person. virgin islands on the closing date the transferred assets are being purchased in as is condition and will comprise all of the assets and property necessary to conduct the franchised business in accordance with franchisor confidential operations manual confidential manual. vii the development and or conduct of the franchised business and the ownership and use of the transferred assets in accordance with franchisor confidential manual complies or will as of the closing date comply with all applicable federal foreign state and local laws regulations and ordinances provided however that purchaser may be required to obtain certain licenses and permits in connection with the operation of the franchised business. to induce seller to enter into this agreement and to perform seller obligations hereunder and with full knowledge that seller will rely thereon purchaser represents and warrants as follows i purchaser is a type of entity duly organized validly existing and in good standing under the law of the state of state. ii purchaser has full right power and authority to execute and deliver this agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby. iii this agreement has been duly executed and delivered by purchaser and constitutes the legal valid and binding obligation of purchaser enforceable against purchaser in accordance with its terms. iv neither the execution and delivery of this agreement nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby will conflict with violate or result in a breach of or default under with or without the giving of notice or the passage of time or both a any license instrument contract store document of or agreement to which purchaser is a party or by which purchaser is bound or the certificate of incorporation or the bylaws or other comparable charter documents of purchaser. neither the execution and delivery of this agreement nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby will require any consent or approval of or any filing with any governmental entity or other person. purchaser acknowledges that a there are several potential locations for the location of purchaser cold stone creamery restaurant the decision to establish and operate purchaser cold stone creamery restaurant at the premises was made solely by purchaser without any reliance upon any information provided if any recommendation made if any or approval given by seller any area representative sublessor or any of their respective shareholders directors officers employees representatives agents or affiliates seller selection and approval of the premises as a site for a cold stone creamery restaurant provides no assurance or guaranty as to purchaser results of operations in connection with its cold stone creamery restaurant at the premises purchaser has reviewed the lease including all amendments and addendums with respect to the premises and approves of the terms thereof including rental payment amounts purchaser accepts full responsibility for the consequences of purchaser decision to open and operate a cold stone creamery restaurant at the premises. interim period only if applicable. a between the execution date and the closing date as applicable seller has operated the franchised business in accordance with seller standard operating procedures for operating cold stone creamery restaurants and the franchised business is open to the public for business. purchaser shall attend franchisor training program if so required by franchisor in the franchise agreement. closing. a subject to the conditions set forth in sections and hereof the transactions contemplated by this agreement shall be consummated on the date that seller turns over the franchised business to purchaser which is estimated to be on or around closing date at an office designated by seller or at another mutually agreeable location. store document of the obligations of seller to consummate the transactions contemplated by this agreement are subject to the satisfaction at or prior to the closing date of the following conditions any of which may be waived by seller in its sole discretion. purchaser shall use its best efforts to cause each and every one of the following conditions to be satisfied at or before the closing date. i purchaser shall have delivered to seller the purchase price or purchase price balance as set forth in section of this agreement or i purchaser shall have executed and delivered to seller the promissory note and security agreement attached hereto as exhibit promissory note in the amount of the deferred payment and any upfront non refundable payments due pursuant to section in the form of cash or by cashiers or certified check ii purchaser shall have executed and delivered to franchisor the franchise agreement and to sublessor the sublease with respect to the premises in the forms then being executed by new franchisees of franchisor and sublessees of sublessor iii purchaser shall have delivered to sublessor the sublease security deposit in the amount of dollars. as defined in the sublease and a lease security deposit in the amount of dollars. as defined in the sublease in connection with the premises as contemplated by the sublease and pursuant to section below as applicable iv purchaser shall have delivered to franchisor the initial franchise fee in the amount of dollars. as defined in the franchise agreement and the representations and warranties of purchaser contained in this agreement shall be true and correct on and as of the closing date and each and all of the terms covenants conditions and agreements to be performed or complied with by purchaser on or before the closing date shall have been performed or complied with. this provision shall be self executing and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this agreement by purchaser shall constitute purchaser certification of the conditions stated herein. assuming that seller satisfied all of the conditions precedent contained in section if any of the requirements of this section have not been satisfied by the closing date purchaser shall be in breach of its obligations hereunder. the obligations of purchaser to consummate the transactions contemplated by this store document of agreement are subject to the satisfaction at or prior to the closing date of the following conditions any of which may be waived by purchaser in its sole discretion. seller shall use its best efforts to cause each and every one of the following conditions to be satisfied at or before the closing date. i as of the closing date there shall have been no material adverse change in the franchised business the transferred assets or the premises or the condition thereof since the date of this agreement other than changes contemplated by section ii seller shall have delivered to purchaser the bill of sale executed by seller and iii the representations and warranties of seller contained in this agreement shall be true and correct on and as of the closing date with the same effect as though such representations and warranties had been made on and as of the closing date and each and all of the terms covenants conditions and agreements to be performed or complied with by seller on or before the closing date shall have been performed or complied with. this provision shall be self executing and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this agreement by seller shall constitute seller certification of the conditions stated herein. assuming that purchaser has satisfied all of the conditions precedent contained in section if any of the requirements of this section other than the requirement contained in clause i if such material adverse change shall be beyond the control of seller has not been satisfied by the closing date seller shall be in breach of its obligations hereunder. the rent payable pursuant to the lease for the premises shall be paid by sublessor for the month in which the closing date occurs and purchaser shall pay to sublessor on a per diem basis based upon a thirty day month an amount equal to the rent prepaid by sublessor with respect to the period on and after the closing date via an eft ach or other type of debit authorized by seller or sublessor as may be applicable will bill purchaser for such pro rated rent amount. seller shall be responsible for all compensation to employees of the franchised business for the period through the date immediately preceding the closing date. purchaser shall be responsible for all compensation to employees of the franchised business for the period on and after the closing date. notwithstanding anything contained in this agreement to the contrary purchaser shall not be obligated to employ any of seller employees after the closing date. seller shall be responsible for all costs fees and expenses relating to the franchised business including but not limited to cam reconciliation charges and property taxes on a pro rated basis for the period through the date immediately preceding the closing date. purchaser shall be responsible for all costs fees and expenses relating to the franchised business including but not limited to cam reconciliation charges property taxes et cetera on a pro rated basis for the period on and after the closing date. store document of as of and after the closing date purchaser shall assume acquire take over become responsible for and promise to pay all contracts leases agreements and other liabilities collectively the assumed liabilities in connection with the franchised business except for those contracts leases agreements and other liabilities which are specifically excluded as set forth below list all contracts leases agreements and other liabilities which purchaser is not assuming or list none purchaser shall indemnify defend and hold seller free and harmless from and against any and all losses as defined below which seller shall incur or suffer which arise or result from the operation or conduct of the business of the franchised business by purchaser as of and after the closing date including but not limited to any losses arising from any default of purchaser arising under the franchise agreement or sublease and from any default of purchaser with respect to the assumed liabilities. losses shall mean any and all obligations liabilities costs including reasonable attorneys fees expenses damages and losses actually incurred by seller net of any insurance proceeds and material tax adjustments benefits savings or reductions to which seller is entitled by virtue of such obligations liabilities costs expenses damages and losses provided however that losses exclude all consequential damages of any kind including but not limited to loss of revenue or income cost of capital or loss of business reputation or opportunity. as of and prior to the closing date seller shall have good and marketable title to the transferred assets free and clear of any and all liens claims judgments taxes encumbrances security interests debts or other adverse claims or rights of any kind except as otherwise provided herein. seller agrees to indemnify purchaser of any and all liens claims judgments taxes encumbrances security interests debts or other adverse claims or rights of any kind which accrued up through the date immediately preceding the closing date whether or not known by either seller or purchaser. seller further agrees to indemnify purchaser of any and all liens claims judgments taxes encumbrances security interests debts or other adverse claims or rights of any kind which accrued up to the date immediately preceding the closing date even if such liens claims judgments taxes encumbrances security interests debts or other adverse claims or rights of any kind are discovered at any future date. any and all liens claims judgments taxes encumbrances security interests debts or other adverse claims or rights of any kind which accrue on or after the closing date are the sole obligation and responsibility of the purchaser. notices. all notices consents approvals or other instruments required or permitted to be given by either party pursuant to this agreement shall be in writing and given by a hand delivery facsimile express overnight delivery service or certified or registered mail return receipt requested and shall be deemed to have been delivered upon i receipt if hand delivered ii transmission if delivered by facsimile iii the next business day following the date of deposit with the delivery service if delivered by express overnight delivery service or iv the third business day following the day of deposit of such notice with the united states postal service if sent by store document of certified or registered mail return receipt requested. notices shall be provided to the parties at the addresses and facsimile numbers specified below if to seller if to liquor license entity if applicable selling entity attention legal department east via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona telephone number facsimile number liquor license entity attention legal department east via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona telephone number facsimile number if to purchaser purchaser address telephone number facsimile number or email any party may change its address or facsimile number by giving notice in writing stating its new address or facsimile number to the other party to this agreement as provided in the foregoing manner. use only if broker involved with sale otherwise reserve brokers fees. seller has retained broker entity broker as broker in connection with the sale of the transferred assets contemplated hereby. the seller shall be solely responsible for the payment of any fees due broker in connection with the sale of the transferred assets contemplated hereby. survival. each of the representations warranties and covenants contained herein shall survive the closing date irrespective of any investigation or inquiry made by or any knowledge of any party. successors and assigns. this agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties and their respective assigns legal representatives executors heirs and successors. amendment modification or waiver. a no amendment modification or waiver of any condition provision or term of this agreement shall be valid or of any effect unless made in writing signed by the parties and specifying with particularity the nature and extent of the amendment modification or waiver. waiver of any matter shall not be deemed a waiver of the same or any other matter on any future occasion. store document of failure on the part of any party to complain of any act or failure to act of the other party or to declare the other party in default irrespective of how long the failure continues shall not constitute a waiver by that party of its rights under this agreement. entire agreement. this agreement including the exhibits hereto contains the entire understanding and agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings between the parties with respect to such subject matter. each of the exhibits is incorporated in this agreement by this reference and constitutes a part of this agreement. counterparts. this agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts each of which shall be considered one and the same agreement and shall become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties and delivered to the other party. dispute resolution. a except as otherwise provided herein any dispute claim or controversy arising out of or relating to this agreement the breach hereof the rights and obligations of the parties hereto or the relationship between the parties or the entry making interpretation or performance of either party under this agreement dispute which cannot be resolved by mediation under section below or is not subject to mediation under the terms of this agreement shall be settled by arbitration administered by the american arbitration association aaa in accordance with it commercial arbitration rules as modified below. any arbitration shall take place before a sole arbitrator in maricopa county arizona or if our headquarters are no longer located in maricopa county arizona then the arbitration shall take place in the county in which our principal place of business is located at the time the arbitration is commenced. purchaser agrees to conducting the arbitration where seller is located is appropriate. the parties agree that the arbitrator shall be an attorney licensed to practice law in the united states and must have a minimum of five years of experience in franchise law. judgment on the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court of competent jurisdiction. the arbitrator shall in the award allocate all of the costs of the arbitration including the fees of the arbitrator and the reasonable attorney fees of the prevailing party against the party who did not prevail. to the extent permitted by applicable law no issue of fact or law shall be given preclusive or collateral estoppel effect in any other dispute arbitration proceeding or litigation except to the extent such issue may have been specifically determined in another proceeding between the parties. this agreement to arbitrate shall survive any termination or expiration of this agreement however effected. the parties agree that any arbitration shall be solely between them including any affiliates and shall not include as a party by consolidation joinder or in any other manner any other person or entity unless both parties consent in writing. both parties shall have the absolute right to refuse such consent. further the parties expressly waive any right to bring and or participate in any class or other consolidated joined or multi party arbitration claim or proceeding whether or not permissible under the aaa commercial arbitration rules including but not limited to any claim brought on their behalf by an association of which it he or she is a member. at the request of any party the arbitration shall be conducted in a manner that maintains the store document of confidentiality of the proceedings. the arbitrator will issue a reasoned award with findings of fact and conclusions of law. actions to enforce an express obligation to pay monies may be brought under the expedited procedures of the aaa commercial arbitration rules. the federal arbitration act shall govern excluding all state arbitration laws. arizona law will govern all other issues. with respect to discovery the arbitrator shall require each party to make a good cause showing before any discovery exceeding that specifically authorized by the aaa commercial arbitration rules will be granted. prior to the commencement of an arbitration proceeding the parties must first submit any dispute to non binding mediation. at the request of any party the mediation will be confidential. the mediation shall be conducted in maricopa county arizona or in the county in which our headquarters are located at the time of mediation unless the parties shall mutually agree to a different location. the parties to the mediation will share equally in its costs and expenses except those costs and expenses incurred separately by each party including without limitation counsel fees and expenses. the mediation process will be deemed completed when the parties agree that it has been completed the mediator declares that any impasse exists or sixty days have elapsed since the date of the initiating party notice to the other party that it is initiating the mediation process whichever occurs first. notwithstanding anything contained in this agreement to the contrary the provisions of sections a and do not apply to a dispute where i seller brings an action for an express obligation to pay monies declaratory relief preliminary or permanent equitable relief any action at law for damage to seller goodwill the confidential information the proprietary marks or for fraudulent conduct by purchaser or ii the delay resulting from the mediation process may endanger or adversely affect the public for example unhealthy unsafe or unsanitary conditions would continue to exist. for such disputes seller may bring an action in any federal or state court having jurisdiction whether for monetary damages and or for temporary preliminary and permanent injunctive relief or specific performance in addition to and not exclusive of any other remedies available to seller. purchaser hereby consents to and waives any objection or defense and agrees not to contest venue forum non conveniens or jurisdiction of such court or arbitration. disputes concerning the validity or scope of arbitration including whether a dispute is subject to arbitration are beyond the authority of the arbitrator and will be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to the federal arbitration act. et seq. as amended from time to time. either party may appeal the final award of the arbitrator if it is over one hundred thousand dollars to the appropriate. district court. the court review of the arbitrator findings of fact will be under the clearly erroneous standard and the court review of all legal rulings will be delaware novo. if it should be determined that this provision for federal court review is not enforceable then either party may appeal the arbitrator final award if it is over one hundred thousand dollars to a panel of three arbitrators chosen under aaa store document of procedures which will employ the same standards of review stated immediately above. applicable law and forum waiver of jury statute of limitations. except to the extent that the united states trademark act of as amended. et seq. or the franchising laws of any state that may be applicable the laws of the state of arizona govern all rights and obligations of the parties under this agreement. seller and purchaser agree subject to the mandatory mediation and arbitration provisions of section of this agreement that any appropriate state or federal court located in maricopa county arizona has exclusive jurisdiction over any dispute arising under or in connection with this agreement and is the proper forum in which to adjudicate the case or controversy. notwithstanding the foregoing any action initiated by seller may at seller election be brought in any jurisdiction where purchaser is domiciled or that has jurisdiction over purchaser. the parties hereto irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of and venue in any such court and hereby waive any objection or defense thereto. the parties agree that all disputes submitted to the court pursuant to this section shall be tried to the court sitting without jury notwithstanding any state or federal constitutional or statutory rights or provisions. notwithstanding anything contained in this agreement to the contrary the parties agree that any claims under arising out of or related to this agreement must be brought within two years of the date on which the underlying cause of action accrued and seller and purchaser hereby waive any right to bring any such action after such two year period except for the collection of any unpaid amounts due to seller or its affiliate. attorneys fees. in the event of any claim controversy or dispute arising out of or relating to this agreement or the breach thereof the prevailing party may recover reasonable attorneys fees incurred in connection with any court or arbitration proceeding. remedies cumulative. the remedies of the parties under this agreement are cumulative and shall not exclude any other remedies to which any party may be lawfully entitled. captions. captions used throughout this agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not be considered in any manner in the construction or interpretation hereof. additional actions. each party agrees to do all acts and things and to make execute and deliver such written instruments as may from time to time be reasonably required to carry out the terms and provisions of this agreement. construction. the parties acknowledge that each party was represented or had the opportunity to be represented by legal counsel in connection with this agreement the exhibits hereto and the transactions contemplated by this agreement and that each of them and its counsel have reviewed this agreement or have had an opportunity to do so and that any rule of construction to the effect that ambiguities are to be resolved against the drafting party shall not be employed in the interpretation of this agreement or any amendments or any exhibits hereto or thereto. store document of signature page follows store document of in witness whereof the parties hereto by and through its respective representatives with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind his or her respective party without further consent or approval of any kind has duly executed and delivered this agreement as of the effective date. seller selling entity a by name title purchaser purchaser a by name title liquor license entity if applicable entity a by name title by name title store document exhibit to asset purchase agreement bill of sale store document bill of sale this bill of sale dated executed by selling entity a if liquor license entity grantor in favor of purchaser a grantee. for good and valuable consideration the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged grantor does hereby convey grant bargain sell transfer set over assign alien remise release deliver and confirm unto grantee its successors and assigns forever free and clear of all liens security interests claims charges or encumbrances of any kind the assets listed on schedule attached hereto collectively transferred assets to have and to hold all of the assets unto grantee its successors and assigns to their own use and behoof forever. the following are excluded assets and are excluded from schedule a cash deposits including but not limited to any utility and security deposits banks accounts certificates of deposit securities or evidences of indebtedness received prior to and including the date of this bill of sale. credit card or house accounts receivable from sales generated from the franchised business and constituting a part thereof prior to and including the date of this bill of sale any other accounts receivable or choses of action accruing on or before the closing date as defined in the asset purchase agreement and. consumable inventory including but not limited to food products perishables paper products cash on hand and other goods. executed as of the date first set forth above. if liquor license entity grantor selling entity a by name title store document schedule to bill of sale list of assets. all telephone numbers used in connection with the franchised business including without limitation the following. the leaseholdunder the master lease along with all improvements which may be associated with the franchised business. all goodwill associated with the franchised business. if liquor license the license maintained by entity as may be transferrable under applicable state law. all of grantor furniture fixtures and equipment appliances and personal property located at the franchised business including without limitation the following quantity description serial number store document exhibit to asset purchase agreement promissory note and security agreement attached not applicable or applicable only if purchaser enters into a promissory note and security agreement store document promissory note and security agreement note amount scottsdale arizona amount date. promise to pay. for value received name a corporation limited liability company individual maker promises to pay to the order of holder entity a state corporation limited liability company et cetera holder at east via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona or at such other address as holder may designate at any time by written notice to maker in lawful money of the united states of america the principal sum of xx thousand dollars xx. together with all then accrued and unpaid interest and other amounts that are maker obligations under this promissory and security agreement note if any. maker and holder may also be referred to in this agreement as a party and collectively as parties. the note balance represents the principal amount owing by maker to holder for the purchase price of the store as defined below due under the asset purchase agreement in the aggregate amount of xx thousand dollars xx. plus the ucc filing fee as described in section in the amount of one hundred dollars collectively debt for the cold stone creamery store number at the following location store. computation of interest. except as otherwise set forth in this note this note shall not bear interest or bear interest at the rate of per annum based on a month year amortization schedule. required payments method of payment. principal and interest if any shall be repaid to holder in a total of xx weekly monthly installments consisting of the first xx installments in the amount of and xx dollars. and the final installment in the amount of and xx dollars. which installments shall be due on the day of the week or date of the month xxx of each consecutive week month with the first installment due on date and the final installment due on date all as set forth on the amortization schedule attached hereto as exhibit and incorporated herein by reference. maker authorizes holder or one of its affiliates to deduct payments owed by maker or one of its affiliates to holder under this note out of maker bank accounts via electronic funds transfer in the same way holder or one of its affiliates is authorized to collect payment under the franchise agreement entered into by and between holder and maker dated or other franchise documents that maker or a related entity entered into with holder or one of its affiliates for the store individually and collectively franchise agreement. all payments due under this note shall be deducted by holder close of business from maker depository account as defined in the franchise agreement on the day they are due or the preceding banking business day if such date is a holiday or falls on a weekend. holder shall not be responsible for any interest charges for any overage collected due to maker failure to timely authorize payment. additionally holder shall not be responsible for any bank service charges incurred by maker which result in the withdrawal of funds from maker depository account. maker shall pay holder fifty and dollars. for each withdrawal attempted from maker depository account pursuant to this section that is returned for non sufficient funds. maker shall also reimburse holder for all other costs incurred by holder in collecting or attempting to collect funds due holder from the depository account for example without limitation charges for non sufficient funds uncollected funds or other discrepancies in deposits or maintenance of the depository account balance in accordance with the terms of the franchise agreement. holder does not have to make or give presentment demand protest or notice to get paid. maker hereby waives any right to presentment demand protest and notice store document of as set forth in section below. application of payments. all payments and other credits due under this note shall be applied if part of note balance a non refundable fee i first to the amount of principal allocated to the initial franchisee fee renewal fee transfer fee i first ii second to fees costs and expenses payable by maker under this note ii second iii third to accrued and unpaid interest if any and iii third iv fourth to principal. collection costs. if suit arbitration or other legal proceeding or any non judicial foreclosure proceeding is instituted or any other action is taken by holder to collect all or any part of the indebtedness evidenced hereby or to proceed against the collateral as defined below for any portion of such indebtedness or against any guarantor of the payment of any portion of the indebtedness maker promises to pay holder attorneys fees and other costs to be determined by the court and not by a jury incurred thereby. such fees and costs shall be included in any judgment or arbitration award obtained by holder and shall bear interest at the default rate set forth in section. optional prepayments. maker shall have the option to prepay this note in full or in part at any time and from time to time without penalty. maker shall identify each optional prepayment of principal as such by written notice to holder at the time of payment and no such prepayment shall decrease or defer the monthly installment payments required by section above. security interest. the indebtedness evidenced by this note shall be secured by and maker hereby grants to holder a security interest in the equipment inventory leasehold improvements and all proceeds thereof and all increases additions accessories accessions substitutions and replacements thereto located at the store including without limitation insurance proceeds collateral. description of the collateral is attached hereto as exhibit and incorporated herein by reference. concurrent with the execution of this note or at any time after the execution of this note so long as a balance remains outstanding under this note maker shall execute and deliver to holder or alternatively maker gives holder permission to file at maker expense a ucc financing statement evidencing the security interest granted by this section. guaranty of promissory note and security agreement. if maker is an individual and married maker represents and warrants that maker obligations under this note are guaranteed by maker spouse and or any other individuals requested by holder as consideration for its agreements herein together guarantors pursuant to the guaranty of promissory note and security agreement attached hereto as exhibit and incorporated herein by reference. if maker is a corporation limited liability company or other business entity maker represents and warrants that maker obligations under this note are guaranteed by each of the persons who are shareholders members or other owners direct or indirect of maker and their respective spouses if married and or any other individuals requested by holder as consideration for its agreements herein together also guarantors pursuant to the guaranty of promissory note and security agreement attached hereto as exhibit and incorporated herein by reference. in the event any person who has not previously signed a guaranty of promissory note and security agreement becomes maker spouse person who is a shareholder member or other owner direct or indirect of maker or their respective spouses if married and or any other individual requested by holder as consideration for its agreements herein at any time after the execution of this agreement maker must cause such person to immediately execute and deliver a guaranty of franchise agreement to holder. store document of. maker representations and warranties. maker represents and warrants the following. collateral. i maker will make sure that the collateral is maintained and in good operating condition necessary to the conduct of maker business. all maintenance must also comply with any legal or regulatory requirements. ii maker will make sure that maker has not suffered any material adverse change in maker financial condition or operations. iii maker will protect and preserve the collateral and holder security interest therein and assist holder in all ways in enforcing holder security interests in the collateral. iv maker will not incur any debts beyond maker ability to pay such debts as they mature. maker will pay before they become delinquent all taxes and claims assessments charges and the like as well as all amounts due under all agreements with third parties. virgin islands maker will take all actions necessary or appropriate to protect the collateral that consists of technology and proprietary information. this includes without limitation filing all applicable documentation with the united states and foreign patent and trademark offices. vii holder will give maker prior notice if holder or holder agents want to inspect the collateral. holder may inspect the collateral during regular business hours. holder will take reasonable steps not to interfere with maker business operations during any such inspection. if holder finds during an inspection that maker is not complying with this note or if maker is otherwise in default under this note maker and not holder will pay holder reasonable travel meals and lodging costs holder salary costs and holder costs and fees and those of holder agents for re inspection. maker will promptly cure any problems with the collateral that are discovered during holder inspections. viii maker will use the collateral only for business purposes. maker will obey all legal and regulatory requirements in maker use of the collateral and the conduct of maker business. ix maker will make all additions modifications and improvements to the collateral to the extent necessary. otherwise maker will not alter the collateral without holder written permission. maker will not remove the collateral from the store location. xi maker has and will continue to have good and merchantable title to all of the collateral free and clear of all security interests liens and other encumbrances with the exception of holder lien described in section above. store document of xii maker will not convey assign sell mortgage transfer encumber pledge hypothecate grant a security interest in grant options with respect to lease or otherwise dispose of all or any part of any interest whatsoever in or to any or all of the collateral or any interest therein. insurance. i until maker has made all payments to holder under this note in full maker will keep the collateral insured. the amount of insurance the coverage and the insurance company must be acceptable to holder. ii if maker does not provide holder with written evidence of insurance that is acceptable to holder holder may buy the insurance at maker expense. maker will promptly pay holder the cost of this insurance. holder has no obligation to purchase any insurance. any insurance that holder purchases will be holder insurance and not maker and holder may insure the collateral beyond the date of satisfaction of the debt. iii insurance proceeds may be used to repair or replace damaged or lost collateral or to pay holder the present value of the payments described herein. iv maker appoints holder as maker attorney in fact to make claims under the insurance policies to receive payments under the insurance policies and to endorse maker name on all documents checks or drafts relating to insurance claims for collateral. upon request by maker holder will provide maker with copies of any and all documents signed as maker attorney in fact. holder agrees to pay maker any insurance proceeds received by holder in excess of the any and all amounts due holder under this note. waivers and acknowledgments. maker and any sureties endorsers and guarantors of all or any portion of the indebtedness evidenced by this note waive a demand notice diligence protest presentment for payment and notice of extension dishonor protest demand and nonpayment of this note and any release or discharge by reason of i any release or substitution of or other change in any security given for the indebtedness evidenced by this note or the obligation of any other person or entity who or which is now or may become directly or indirectly liable for all or any portion of the indebtedness evidenced by this note or ii any extension or other modification of the time or terms of payment of all or any portion of the indebtedness evidenced by this note. maker and any sureties endorsers and guarantors agree that their liability for the indebtedness evidenced hereby shall be joint and several. default take back rights and additional remedies. default. maker will be in default if any of the following occurs i maker does not pay holder within seven days after written notice is received by maker from holder any payment that maker owes holder under this note the franchise agreement including but not limited to royalty and advertising fees or any other agreement loan debt lease or other financial arrangement that maker has with holder or one of its affiliates each a payment default. store document of ii any of the financial information that maker gives holder is not materially true and complete or maker fails to tell holder anything that would make the financial information not materially misleading. iii maker does something it is not permitted to do or maker fails to do anything that is required of them under this note the franchise agreement or any other lease loan debt or other financial arrangement that maker has with holder and such breach continues uncured for a period of seven days after holder has given written notice of such default to maker provided that such cure period shall not apply to any covenant relating to insurance covering the collateral described in section. iv an event of default occurs under the franchise agreement or under any other lease loan debt or obligation of maker or any guarantor that exceeds fifty thousand dollars in the aggregate that results in the acceleration or mandatory prepayment thereof. maker files bankruptcy or involuntary bankruptcy is filed against maker or any guarantor and such involuntary bankruptcy is not dismissed within sixty days. virgin islands maker is subject to any other insolvency proceeding other than bankruptcy for example a receivership action or an assignment for the benefit of creditors and such proceeding that is involuntary is not dismissed within sixty days. vii without holder permission maker sells all or a substantial part of maker assets merges or consolidates other than with an affiliate where maker is the surviving entity or a majority of maker voting stock or interests or any guarantor voting stock or interests is transferred. viii there is a material adverse change in maker financial condition business or operations. take back rights. in the event of a payment default maker hereby grants holder the following take back rights as defined below in this section. with respect to the store. maker shall have seven days after receipt of written notice from holder to cure any such payment default. if maker does not timely cure the payment default maker hereby grants holder the irrevocable right to immediately enter the store and take possession and full ownership of the store going forward and further agrees to execute any and all reasonably necessary documents to transfer ownership of the store including all assets located therein to holder or its designee and to assign the lease for the premises of the store to holder or its designee take back rights. in the event of an uncured payment default maker further acknowledges and agrees to the following i the take back rights represent holder liquidated damages for maker payment default ii that such damages are reasonable under the circumstances iii that maker shall have no right to contest and hereby waives any such rights to contest or appeal holder take back rights including holder entry into the store and subsequent possession control and ownership of the store thereafter and iv that maker shall receive no compensation or other monetary consideration from holder for the store. for purposes of the take back rights under this section all notices shall be sent by certified mail return receipt requested or via overnight delivery service to the other party at the addresses listed in section. acceleration in the event of default. in the event of any default including store document of a payment default under this note which is not cured within seven calendar days after receipt of written notice from holder the principal sum hereof together with all accrued and unpaid interest shall at the option of the holder and without limiting any remedies available to holder become immediately due and payable without further notice or demand by the holder. consent to credit reports. maker hereby agrees that upon notice of default or upon an uncured default of this note the franchise agreement or any other agreement between maker or a legal entity thereof and holder or its affiliates and with no prior notice maker consents to holder or its affiliates or third party contractors acquisition and use of non business consumer credit reports on maker in order to evaluate as necessary the financial condition of maker as principal member manager franchisee and or guarantor in connection with the collection of monetary obligations as contemplated by this note maker franchise agreement the guaranty of agreement or any other agreements between maker or a legal entity thereof and holder or its affiliates. acceleration in the event of the sale of the store. in the event maker sells the store as defined in section above effective on or before then the entire principal balance plus all accrued interest shall become due and payable upon the closing of the transaction of the sale of the store. default interest. after maturity including maturity upon acceleration as described in section above or at any time that maker is more than seven calendar days delinquent in the payment of money as required by this note whether or not holder has given any notice of default or any cure period has expired then all amounts outstanding hereunder and any advances thereafter made from the debt evidenced hereby and any accruing costs and reasonable attorneys fees which are the obligation of maker shall thereafter bear interest at the rate of eighteen percent per annum until paid. indemnity. maker shall indemnify defend and hold holder harmless for from and against any and all claims expenses and reasonable attorneys fees actually incurred by holder concerning or arising from the collateral this note or maker breach of any material representation warranty or covenant. it includes without limitation any claims losses or charges actually incurred concerning arising out of or in connection with the manufacture selection delivery possession use operation or return of the collateral and any claims losses or damages actually incurred concerning arising out of or in connection with this note. this obligation of maker to indemnify holder continues even after satisfaction of this note. no waiver by holder. failure of the holder to exercise any option hereunder shall not constitute a waiver of the right to exercise the same in the event of any subsequent default or in the event of continuance of any existing default after demand for strict performance thereof. time of essence. time is of the essence of this note. notices. all notices required or permitted to be given by either party pursuant to this note shall be in writing and given by a hand delivery express overnight delivery service or certified or registered mail return receipt requested and shall be deemed to have been delivered upon i receipt if hand delivered ii the next business day following the date of deposit with the delivery service if delivered by express overnight delivery service or iii the third business day following the day of deposit of such notice with the united states postal service if sent by certified or registered mail return receipt requested. notices shall be provided to the parties at the addresses and facsimile numbers specified below store document of if to holder seller entity attention legal department east via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona telephone number facsimile number if to maker telephone number facsimile number. governing law. this note shall be construed according to the substantive laws and judicial decisions of the state of arizona without regard to any conflict of laws principles. any action brought to enforce this note may be commenced and maintained in the superior court of the state of arizona in and for the county of maricopa. maker and any sureties endorsers and guarantors irrevocably consent to jurisdiction and venue in such court for such purposes. release. in exchange for holder agreement to arrange for maker payment of the debt maker and each of its current past and future predecessors successors and assigns and each of its and the foregoing entities respective parents subsidiaries shareholders members managers owners partners directors officers employees representatives agents successors assigns guarantors insurers spouses heirs executors trustees and estates if any of any and all such entities collectively with maker maker parties hereby irrevocably and unconditionally release remise and forever discharge holder and each of its current past and future predecesors sucessors and assigns and each of its and the foregoing entities respective parents subsidiaries shareholders members managers owners partners directors officers employees representatives agents successors assigns guarantors insurers spouses heirs executors trustees and estates if any of any and all such entities collectively with holder holder parties from any and all claims demands causes of action suits debts duties accounts covenants contracts agreements promises damages judgments taxes liabilities and obligations both contingent and fixed known and unknown now existing or hereafter of every kind and nature whatsoever in law or equity or otherwise under local state or federal law or the law of any other applicable jurisdiction that any of the maker parties have against any of the holder parties including without limitation those arising from in connection with or relating to the franchise agreement including any amendments or modifications thereto ii the operation leasing or subleasing of the store and iii the offering and sale of the franchise for the store arising from an act omission conduct or activity occurring before and including the date of this note written above. store document of it is understood by maker that if the facts or law with respect to the foregoing release hereafter turn out to be different from the facts or law known to be or believed by maker to be true at the time of execution of this note then maker expressly assumes the risk of the facts or law turning out to be so different and agrees that the foregoing release shall be in all respects effective and not subject to termination or rescission in whole or in part based upon such differences. counterparts signatures. this note may be executed in one or more counterparts each of which shall be deemed to be an original copy of this note and all of which when taken together shall be deemed to constitute one and the same note. the signatures required for execution may be transmitted to the other party via facsimile or a scanned.pdf file sent via email and such signature shall be deemed a duplicate original shall be effective upon receipt by the other party may be admitted in evidence and shall fully bind the party and person making such signature. signature page follows store document of in witness whereof maker by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind his or her respective party without further consent or approval of any kind has duly executed and delivered this note as of the date first written above. maker a by name title store document exhibit to promissory note amortization schedule attached store document exhibit to promissory note collateral all assets owned by name a state corporation limited liability company borrower whether now owned or hereafter acquired by borrower and located at the following location store address including without limitation the following properties of borrower a all accounts contract rights rights to payment accounts receivable chattel paper leases instruments notes securities documents of title deposit accounts certificates of deposit and general intangibles all inventory including without limitation raw materials work in process or materials used or consumed in the business of borrower whether in the possession of borrower warehouseman bailee or any other person or entity all machinery furniture fixtures and other equipment all negotiable and nonnegotiable documents of title all proceeds of any of the above described property all books and records pertaining to any of the above described property including without limitation any computer readable memory and any computer hardware or software necessary to process such memory all rights under contracts of insurance covering any of the above described property all attachments accessions tools parts supplies increases and additions to and all replacements of and substitutions for any of the above described property and i all products of any of the above described property. store document exhibit to promissory note guaranty of promissory note and security agreement or not applicable store document guaranty of promissory note and security agreement this guaranty of promissory note and security agreement guaranty is dated as of date effective date and is executed by each of the undersigned individually and collectively guarantor in favor of selling entity a state corporation limited liability company et cetera seller. to the extent this guaranty contains terms and conditions that differ from those contained in the note as defined in recital below this guaranty shall control. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this guaranty will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the note. recitals. as an inducement for seller to provide debt to franchisee a state corporation limited liability company franchisee and to perform seller obligations under the promissory note and security agreement dated start date note in the amount of dollars guarantor has agreed to jointly and severally guarantee the obligations of franchisee under the note. franchisee and kahala franchising. signed a franchise agreement as amended with respect to cold stone creamery store number franchise dated franchise agreement date franchise agreement. guarantor is an individual who owns directly or indirectly a five percent or greater equity interest in the franchise has agreed to guarantee the franchisee obligations pursuant to the franchise agreement and note or is franchisee spouse. now therefore in consideration of the foregoing the execution and delivery of the note by seller and the performance of seller obligations under the note guarantor agrees for the benefit of seller and its affiliates as follows agreement. guarantor unconditionally guarantees and promises to pay to seller and or its affiliates and to perform for the benefit of seller and or its affiliates on demand any and all obligations and liabilities of franchisee in connection with with respect to or arising out of the note and all schedules entered into in connection therewith obligations. this is a guaranty of payment and not of collection. this guaranty will remain in full force and effect until all amounts payable by guarantor have been validly finally and irrevocably paid in full and all obligations will have been validly finally and irrevocably satisfied or performed in full. guarantor obligations under this guaranty are joint and several and are independent of the obligations of franchisee. separate action or actions may be brought and prosecuted against guarantor regardless of whether an action is brought against the franchisee or whether the franchisee or if more than one guarantor the other guarantors is joined in any such action. guarantor waives the benefit of any statute of limitations affecting guarantor liability under this guaranty or the enforcement of this guaranty. guarantor waives its rights under. section et seq. and rule of the arizona rules of civil procedure for the superior courts of arizona which set forth certain rights and obligations among guarantors debtors and creditors if applicable including the right to require seller to bring an action against the franchisee prior to enforcing its rights under this guaranty. guarantor waives any right to require seller to proceed against or exhaust any security interest held in the property of franchisee or to pursue any other remedies that seller may have. guarantor waives all store document of requirements as to presentment demand for performance notice of non performance protest notice of protest notice of dishonor and notice of acceptance of this guaranty and of the existence creation or incurring of new or additional obligations or indebtedness. guarantor authorizes seller without notice or demand and without affecting guarantor liability under this guaranty to renew compromise modify extend accelerate or otherwise change the terms of any present or future obligations and or agreements between franchisee and seller or seller affiliates. any change in the obligations and or agreements will have no effect on guarantor liability under this guaranty. guarantor will remain liable for the obligations as set forth in this guaranty if franchisee fails to satisfy any of its obligations. if any one or more of the provisions in this guaranty will be held to be invalid illegal or unenforceable in any respect such invalidity illegality or unenforceability will not affect any other provision of this guaranty and this guaranty will be construed as if such provision had never been contained herein. notwithstanding the foregoing if the provision held invalid illegal or unenforceable is a material part of this guaranty as determined by seller the parties shall promptly negotiate a substitute provision consistent with then current law and the parties original intent to replace the provision held to be invalid illegal or unenforceable. if seller is required to take any legal action to enforce its rights under this guaranty seller may recover from guarantor seller costs and expenses in connection therewith including without limitation reasonable attorneys fees whether or not suit is filed and all costs of collection suit and preparation for suit whether at the trial or appellate level. nothing in this guaranty will constitute a waiver or limitation of any other rights or remedies of seller or its affiliates against franchisee or guarantor. no failure or delay on the part of seller or its affiliates in exercising its rights under this guaranty will operate as a waiver of or impair any such right. no single or partial exercise of any such right will preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. no waiver of any right will be effective unless given in writing specifying with particularity the nature of the waiver. no waiver of any right will be deemed a waiver of any other right. the rights provided for in this guaranty are cumulative and are not exclusive of any other rights powers privileges or remedies provided by law. guarantor agrees that it will not exercise any rights of subrogation that guarantor may acquire due to any payment or performance of the obligations of the franchisee pursuant to this guaranty unless and until all amounts payable to seller or its affiliates and all obligations for the benefit of seller or its affiliates due under the note will have been validly finally and irrevocably paid and performed in full. this guaranty will be binding upon guarantor and its respective successors heirs and assigns and will inure to the benefit of seller its affiliates and their respective successors and assigns. if more than one person signs this guaranty each guarantor obligations will be joint and several. guarantor acknowledges and agrees that seller will materially rely upon guarantor promises and obligations under this guaranty. the undersigned include name here of each of the undersigned who is not married each represents that he she is not married as of the effective date. this guaranty will be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the law of the state of arizona notwithstanding any conflict of law provisions to the contrary. store document of guarantor agrees that any litigation in connection with this guaranty will be commenced and maintained only in the courts located in maricopa county arizona and guarantor consents to the jurisdiction of such courts. guarantor name an individual name an individual name an individual name an individual exhibit to the franchise disclosure document franchise agreement new store document ii of iii cold stone creamery franchise agreement new between kahala franchising. and a store document iii of iii table of contents article. grant of franchise term system standards. article. selection of location construction and relocation. article. operations. article. training assistance and start up materials. article. fees and deposits. article. proprietary marks. article. trade secrets and proprietary information. article. relationship of the parties and indemnification. article. operating standards and duties of franchise owner. article. advertising and promotion. article. accounting procedures and reports. article. transfer. article. renewal. article. default and termination. article. notices. article. construction and enforcement miscellaneous. article. acknowledgments and representations of franchisee. article. submission of agreement. personal acceptance of sections. and. cold stone creamery franchise agreement agreement parties kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company attn legal department. via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona franchisor a telephone number individually and collectively franchisee restaurant number effective date effective date traditional restaurant yes or no restaurant description if non traditional traditional restaurant is a restaurant that is easily accessible by the general public such as a free standing building inline retail shop shopping mall and street front location. traditional cold stone creamery restaurant normally offers a full menu. non traditional restaurant is a cold stone creamery restaurant that is located in a non traditional marketplace as determined by us in our sole discretion such as an airport amusement park sports or entertainment venue train station travel plaza toll roads cafeteria retail store convenience store military base hospital office building movie theater hotel casino kiosk cart or high school or college campus. non traditional restaurant may also be a cold stone creamery restaurant that is colorado branded into another brand restaurant at franchisor sole discretion. non traditional cold stone creamery restaurant normally offers a limited version of the full cold stone creamery menu. to simplify the language in this agreement the terms we us our and the like may be used to refer to the franchisor and the terms you your and the like may be used to refer to the franchisee. the term you as used herein is applicable to one or more persons a corporation partnership trust other entity association or form of organization as the case may be and the singular usage includes the plural masculine neuter feminine and possessive usages. franchisor and franchisee may individually be referred to as a party and collectively referred to as the parties. store document of recitals this agreement is entered into with reference to the following facts and circumstances. we have over a period of time and at considerable expense developed and established a uniform and unique method of operation customer service advertising publicity processes recipes techniques and technical knowledge in connection with the restaurant business specializing in super premium ice cream cakes pies smoothies shakespeare specialty beverages other dessert with frozen confections and other related beverage and food items. these restaurants do business under the trade name cold stone creamery. these cold stone creamery recipes techniques processes and methods constitute our trade secrets. all of our knowledge experience trade secrets processes methods specifications techniques proprietary marks as defined in recital. system standards as defined in section. and information are referred to in this agreement as the system. the system may be changed supplemented improved and further developed by us from time to time. we have owned and issued franchises to others for the operation of franchised restaurants in the united states and in other countries. we have registered and applied for proprietary marks with the united states patent and trademark office and with offices in other countries serving similar functions. these proprietary interests trademarks service marks logos insignias trade names and trade dress are referred to in this agreement as the proprietary marks. we are engaged in the business of licensing the right to use the proprietary marks in connection with the operation and promotion of the system. you understand and recognize that our trade secrets proprietary marks developments and other properties as recited above are of considerable value and it is of importance to us and all of our franchisees to maintain the development of the system in a uniform and distinctive manner allowing you and our other franchisees to enjoy a public image and reputation greater than most single franchisees could establish. you desire to make use of the cold stone creamery trademark and to enjoy the benefits of that mark the other proprietary marks and the system and to establish a cold stone creamery franchise to be operated in accordance with system standards set forth from time to time by us. system standards are set forth in without limitation the confidential ops package which consists of the operations manual operations manual ops toolkit and related printed and electronic documents both now existing and hereinafter developed individually and collectively confidential manual. we are willing to grant you the right to do so under the terms conditions and provisions set forth in this agreement which includes any and all appendices addenda amendments attachments and exhibits. you recognize the necessity and desirability of protecting our reputation goodwill trade secrets and other confidential business information and that disclosure of trade secrets and confidential business information including specifics of the system to any third party will cause irreparable damage and harm to us. agreement the parties agree as follows store document of article. grant of franchise term system standards. franchise grant. we hereby grant to you a cold stone creamery franchise that includes the right to use the system franchised business as provided in this agreement at the following location arena mall facility or center name if applicable street address city state zip code location. location of the franchised business no exclusive territory or other rights. you must operate the franchised business only from the location including any catering services of cold stone creamery menu items you provide. you acknowledge that the cold stone creamery franchise granted under this agreement is non exclusive that we are not granting you any territorial protection or any other exclusive rights and that we directly or through one or more affiliates reserve the right in our sole discretion and without compensating you or seeking your prior approval i to establish and grant to other franchisees or licensees the right to establish a cold stone creamery restaurant or any other business using the proprietary marks the cold stone creamery system or any variation thereof in any location other than the approved location including locations in the immediate vicinity of your location on any terms and conditions that we deem appropriate ii to establish and grant to other franchisees or licensees the right to establish any restaurant concept other than cold stone creamery in any location on any terms and conditions that we deem appropriate including locations in the immediate vicinity of the location iii to sell products identified by the proprietary marks or other trademarks service marks or commercial symbols in any location through any distribution channels including grocery stores convenience stores supermarkets club stores vending machines delivery services and restaurants other than cold stone creamery restaurants and iv to take any other action that we are not expressly prohibited from taking under this agreement. we hereby grant to you during the term of this agreement a non exclusive right and license to operate a single restaurant at the location only according to the system standards and subject to the terms conditions and restrictions contained in this agreement. this agreement is limited to the operation of one traditional restaurant unless otherwise amended and does not grant you the right to buy own or operate additional restaurants. except as expressly limited in this agreement we for ourselves and our affiliates and designees retain all rights with respect to all proprietary marks and the sale of cold stone creamery products anywhere in the world with no compensation or liability to you including the right to a establish and operate or license to any other person or entity the right to establish and operate cold stone creamery restaurants owned or licensed by us at any location store document of. develop market own operate and participate in any other business under the proprietary marks or any other trademarks including trademarks identified in the franchise disclosure document disclosure document and other trademarks we or our affiliates own or have the right to license. develop lease and license the use of at any location trademarks other than the proprietary marks in connection with the operation of a system that offers products or services that are the same as or similar to those offered by us under this agreement on any terms or conditions that we deem advisable in our sole discretion. merge with acquire or be acquired by any other business including a business that competes with your franchised business or acquire and convert any retail stores including retail stores operated by competitors or otherwise operated independently or as part of or in association with any other system or chain whether franchised or corporate owned. distribute sell and license other persons or entities to distribute and sell products through all other channels of distribution including catalog sales telemarketing grocery stores warehouses big box shops specialty shops limited access highway food facilities vending machines and similar automated dispensing systems mobile units off site sales accounts electronic mail internet sales and movie theaters individually and collectively other channels and. implement multi area marketing programs that may allow us or others to solicit or sell to customers anywhere. we also reserve the right to issue mandatory policies to coordinate such multi area marketing programs. term of agreement. this agreement will commence on the effective date and continue as set forth in either section. a or. b below term. a if you are purchasing a new or existing non operating franchised business the term will expire on either the ten year anniversary of the date you open this franchised business to the public if you own the property where this franchised business is located or if you enter into a lease directly with the landlord or other third party for the property where this franchised business is located or if you have entered into a sublease with one of our affiliates the expiration of the term of the sublease for the location excluding any extensions or renewal options unless terminated earlier in accordance with article or any other provisions of this agreement renewed in accordance with article or transferred in accordance with article or. if you are purchasing an existing and operating franchised business the term will expire on either the ten year anniversary of the effective date if you own the property where this franchised business is located or if you enter into a lease directly with the landlord or other third party for the property where this franchised business is located or if you have entered into a sublease with one of our affiliates the expiration of the term of the sublease for the location excluding any extensions or renewal options unless terminated earlier in accordance with article or any other provisions of this agreement renewed in accordance with article or transferred in accordance with article. store document of. system standards. you shall operate the restaurant in accordance with our standards including the following a restaurant design maintenance health and safety and remodeling. types models brands and suppliers of required fixtures furnishings equipment signs materials and supplies. recipes and ingredients menu items and menu design. cooperation with and participation in sales marketing advertising and promotional programs including discount coupons discount gift cards special menu promotions and entering into product and service agreements directly with third party vendors and service providers as required by us and materials and media used in those programs including discontinued use and removal of promotional materials as directed by us. use and display of the proprietary marks. restaurant operations including matters related to the management of the restaurant training of your employees consistent with the system standards and commercial impression of the franchised business to the public. cooperation with and participation consistent with our responses and resolutions in response to customer feedback. cooperation with and participation in i market research and testing and ii product and service development programs i acceptance of our stored value gift cards including gift cards sold at a discount loyalty cards frequency cards gift certificates vouchers and any other similar electronic card and payment programs individually and collectively gift loyalty card credit and debit cards other payment systems check verification services and use of point of sale computer systems you agree to enter into a separate participation agreement with the approved vendor for data processing services. bookkeeping accounting data processing and record keeping systems computer hardware and software connections to the internet or to proprietary networks forms methods formats content and frequency of reports to us of gross sales as defined in article financial performance and condition and providing tax returns and other operating and financial information to us and. conduct and maintain the franchised business and location so as not to distract from or interfere with the integrity of the system individually and collectively system standards. we may in whole or in part change improve update and further develop the system standards from time to time during the term. you shall comply with the updated system standards as directed by us. the operation and maintenance of your restaurant according to the system standards are essential to the well being and vitality of the system and to preserve the goodwill of the store document of proprietary marks for us and for all other franchisees operating under the system. it is critical to the cold stone creamery system for all restaurants operating under the cold stone creamery system to present a uniform and professional image to cold stone creamery customers regardless of which location the customer visits. any information regarding the operation of the restaurant will be considered a mandatory system standard unless it is clear from the express language of our communication that the information is merely optional or is intended by us as a suggestion rather than a requirement. you agree that system standards constitute binding provisions of this agreement as if they were an integral part of this agreement. article. selection of location construction and relocation. location selection procedures. you must select a location that satisfies our minimum site requirements such confirmation will be provided to you by us in writing for your franchised business within one year from the effective date. if you cannot secure an acceptable location for your franchised business within one year from the effective date then we may terminate this agreement by giving you notice to that effect. you are ultimately responsible for the selection of the location. we will not have any liability to you with respect to your selection of the location any assistance we provide you in making your selection our recommendation of any location or a third party to assist you in selecting a location or our allowing you to move forward on any location. you agree that your selection of the location will be based on your own independent investigation of the suitability of the location. lease and purchase approval. if you intend to lease the location for your franchised business the lease will be subject to our prior limited review and acknowledgment so that we can confirm that certain lease terms are incorporated into the lease. you must provide us at least thirty days prior to executing the lease a copy of the lease and details relating to square footage rent per square foot the term of the lease and either confirmation that such other terms as we reasonably require are incorporated into the lease or that you and the landlord agree to incorporate the lease addendum to lease agreement as an exhibit to the lease. you or your attorney shall be responsible for negotiating the terms of the lease which shall be subject to our final limited review and acknowledgment. if you do not submit all of the required documents to us we will not allow you to move forward with your lease. we have no liability to you regarding the terms or negotiations of the lease. if prior to executing the lease you or your attorney request a full review of your lease including any and all exhibits attached thereto and we or our designated affiliate review your entire lease and exhibits and provide to you or your attorney its review of the entire lease and suggested changes to the lease lease review you must pay a lease review fee as defined in section. to compensate for time and effort in reviewing the lease. the lease review is optional and only completed by us or our designated affiliate at your or your attorney request. the lease review fee is due only in the event that you or your attorney request us or our affiliate to complete a lease review. each lease must contain the required lease terms set forth in the lease addendum to lease agreement and must specifically state that we are a third party beneficiary of the lease. if we cure any default by you under the lease any amounts store document of that we pay to cure the default will be payable by you to us on demand together with interest thereon at the lesser rate of one and one half percent or the maximum rate that does not violate applicable state usury laws default rate per month from the date we make such payment. you acknowledge and agree that on the earlier of thirty days after i you receive a fully executed copy of your lease for the location of your franchised business or ii you open your franchised business to the public you must provide a fully executed copy of your lease for the location to us. failure to timely provide us with a fully executed copy of the lease will result in a default under this agreement. if you intend to purchase the location for your franchised business the terms of such purchase shall be subject to our prior approval and you must provide us at least thirty days prior to executing the purchase agreement a copy of the purchase agreement and details relating to square footage price per square foot and such other terms as we reasonably require. you acknowledge and understand that our confirmation that you may move forward with any specific location lease or purchase agreement does not in any way guarantee or ensure the success or profitability of the franchised business or the conformity of the location lease or purchase agreement to applicable laws and such confirmations are only for our own benefit. construction. a you must at your sole cost and expense construct furnish make improvements to and equipment if necessary the franchised business at the location selected by you and meeting our minimum site requirements in accordance with plans and specifications approved by us or our third party approved architect if applicable. our approval of plans is solely for complying with our system standards and not for determining compliance with codes ordinances and other legal requirements including the americans with disabilities act ada or any requirements under the lease for your location. you are solely responsible for ensuring that your location conforms to all codes and ordinances including the ada and all lease specific requirements. you must at your sole cost and expense use our designated and approved third party design architect design architect to prepare the initial design drawings for any construction alterations or improvements as applicable for your franchised business. the design architect must provide us with one set of the design drawings including landscaping and parking spaces if applicable which are the detailed plans and specifications plans for your franchised business. we will provide you with a copy of the plans upon our approval of the plans. you must also at your sole cost and expense retain a licensed architect of record to prepare the permitted construction set of drawings for any construction alterations or improvements. the permitted construction set of drawings must be submitted to us for our files prior to the start of construction alterations or improvements. in addition you must obtain the appropriate construction documents and all mechanical plumbing electrical and architectural plans must be sealed and stamped as we may require even if local laws in the jurisdiction where your restaurant is located do not require same. any material modifications to the approved plans must be submitted to us for approval and you will not undertake any construction alterations or improvements until such modifications have been approved by us. approval of such modifications does not constitute any representation by us of compliance with applicable zoning laws building codes or other laws. store document of. you will be solely responsible for the cost and expense of obtaining all necessary governmental construction permits and licenses and you must at your sole cost and expense comply with all laws zoning ordinances rules and regulations of any governmental agencies that may govern any construction alterations or improvements of the franchised business in accordance with the approved plans. we will have the right but are not required to meet with the design architect and to inspect any construction alterations or improvements during its course to ensure that the provisions of this section. are being observed and you agree to allow our authorized representatives at any and all times while construction alterations or improvements are in progress to meet with the licensed architect and general contractor and enter onto the location for this purpose. if we determine in good faith that the provisions of this section. are not being observed you will at your sole cost and expense immediately take all necessary corrective action. you must at your sole cost and expense use a general contractor that is licensed and if applicable registered in the state and local jurisdiction where your restaurant is located for any and all construction alterations and improvements. the general contractor must have prior experience in the construction alterations and improvement of quick service restaurants. you acknowledge that the design and appearance of the cold stone creamery restaurant is part of the system and that uniformity is essential to the system. therefore you agree that after the restaurant has been constructed altered or improved you will not make any material changes to the building plan or design or its appearance without our prior written consent and you will at your sole cost and expense maintain the interior and exterior dcor of the restaurant in a first class condition and in such manner as we may reasonably prescribe from time to time. in addition to any remodeling required by us upon the transfer of the franchised business and upon the renewal of this agreement as set forth in articles and respectively you will upon thirty days prior notice from us and at your sole cost and expense remodel and make all alterations and improvements in and to your franchised business as reasonably determined by us to reflect the then current cold stone creamery system specifications standards format image and appearance. certificate of occupancy for your franchised business must be submitted to us approximately six days prior to the day you open your franchised business to the public and as otherwise requested by us throughout the term. signage. you will acquire repair and replace as necessary and maintain in a first class condition throughout the term signs for advertising and identifying the franchised business as a cold stone creamery restaurant. all signs must be in accordance with the system standards specifications and any local governing body i city or county governments as well as any other applicable laws including the americans with disabilities act ada and exterior signage must be the maximum size allowed by the landlord and local governing body. you acknowledge that quality control is essential to protect and promote our proprietary marks standards and uniform image and you shall acquire all signs only from approved suppliers. in addition you shall prominently display on all communications forms advertising business stationery and business cards and in a sign easily visible to consumers at the franchised business the following words independently owned and operated. store document of. relocation. a if you desire to relocate the franchised business you may request our consent upon the following conditions i not less than sixty days prior to the desired date of relocation unless prior notice is impractical because of a required relocation due to a third party or our request in which event notice shall be made as soon as possible you must make a written request for consent to relocate describing the reasons for the relocation and providing details respecting any proposed new location. ii within twenty one days after receiving your written request we shall advise you in writing if the proposed new location meets our minimum real estate site requirements as provided in section. and if you have our authorization to proceed with the relocation. in the event of our denial to proceed with the relocation you may request an alternative proposed new location pursuant to the provisions of this section. iii the term will not be extended in connection with the requested relocation. at the time you request to relocate the franchised business you must also meet each of the following requirements i you must not be in default under this agreement or any other agreement or note then in effect between us or you and any affiliate of ours and no event shall have occurred that with the giving of notice the passage of time or both would constitute a default under this agreement ii you must neither have received more than three notices of default or breach during the term nor more than two notices of default or breach during the five years immediately preceding the effective date of the proposed relocation iii the equipment fixtures and signage used in connection with the operation of the franchised business must either meet our then existing system specifications and system standards or you must agree within a timeframe required by us to replace or refurbish such items and otherwise modify the methods of operation of the franchised business at your cost and expense in order to comply with our system specifications and system standards then applicable to new franchise owners and iv you shall have paid to us a relocation fee as defined in section. if we approve the relocation of your franchised business i you and we must execute an amendment to this agreement indicating the address for your relocated franchised business and ii you must open your franchised business at the new location within thirty days after you close your franchised business at the current location. provided that you comply with all of the terms and conditions set forth in this agreement including this section. during the period of time between the closure of your franchised business at the current location and the opening of the franchised business at the approved relocation address you will not owe the royalty fee as defined in section. store document of. restricted use of restaurant location. you may not wholly or partially sublet the location without our prior written consent. the location may be used only for the operation of a cold stone creamery restaurant in compliance with this agreement and the system standards. you shall not conduct other businesses or activities at the location without our prior written consent. not applicable. article. operations. commencing operations. you agree to start operating your cold stone creamery restaurant at the confirmed location within one year from the effective date. you acknowledge that before starting operations you must at your own expense do the following in addition to any other requirements set forth in this agreement a complete a food safety training program at your sole cost and expense. we will accept the certificate for the required program through your local county or state health department or any other nationally recognized food safety program. you must provide us with a copy of your certificate prior to commencing training. successfully complete the training program described in section. purchase lease or otherwise acquire from the list of approved sources provided by us all the signage supplies equipment fixtures inventory and other items necessary to operate the cold stone creamery franchised business and. obtain liability insurance in accordance with the requirements described in section. and provide to us evidence that such insurance has been obtained. prior to opening the franchised business you must notify us that you have satisfied all requirements to begin operations and provide us with such documents as we may reasonably request that show your compliance with all such requirements. upon receipt of our acknowledgment that such requirements have been satisfied you will have five days to begin operations of your cold stone creamery restaurant. if you do not begin operations of your restaurant at the confirmed location before the expiration of the one year period from the effective date then we may terminate this agreement by giving you notice to that effect. supplies and promotional materials rollouts. you agree to sell only those menu items products and services authorized under the terms of this agreement and as specified in the confidential manual and you shall use only supplies and ingredients in making those menu items that are in compliance with the standards as set forth in the confidential manual or other documents provided by or approved by us as they presently exist or may exist in the future. you shall purchase all such services supplies and ingredients only from approved vendors and utilize approved distributor as specified in the documents provided by or approved by us as they presently exist or may exist in the future. you must purchase promotional materials containing the proprietary marks including stationery business store document of cards promotional and advertising materials and similar items from suppliers approved by us except that we must first approve all such promotional and advertising materials before you use them and all such printed materials containing any of the proprietary marks shall be accompanied by the words independently owned and operated. additionally during the term you agree to participate in any rollout of new products and suppliers as defined in section. fixtures furnishings and equipment. unless otherwise approved by us in writing you will acquire repair and replace as necessary and maintain in a first class condition throughout the term fixtures furnishings and equipment to be used in the operation of your franchised business that is in accordance with the system standards specifications set forth by us in the confidential manual or other documents provided by or approved by us as they presently exist or may exist in the future and with applicable laws including without limitation including the americans with disabilities act ada and procure the fixtures furnishings and equipment from suppliers or vendors previously approved in writing by us. online presence. you may not maintain a website software application an appendix application social media account including an account group or page on facebook flickr foursquare google instagram linkedin pinterest snapchat tumblr twitter youtube vine vkontakte or weibo or otherwise maintain a presence or advertise on the internet or any other public computer network individually and collectively site in connection with the franchised business without our prior written approval which we may withhold in our sole discretion. if we grant you written approval you agree to submit to us for approval before use true and correct printouts of all site pages you propose to use in connection with the franchised business. you understand and agree that our right of approval of all such site pages is necessitated by the fact that such site pages will include and be inextricably linked with our proprietary marks. if we approve your use of a site you may only use site pages that we have approved. your site must conform to all online presence requirements policies and procedures per our system standards. you agree to provide all information regarding your online presence that we require. if we grant approval for a site you may not use any of the proprietary marks on the site except as we expressly permit. you may not post any of our proprietary confidential or copyrighted material or information on the site without our prior written permission. if you wish to modify your approved site all proposed modifications must also receive our prior written approval. you explicitly understand that you may not post on any site whether yours or someone else any material in which a third party has any direct or indirect ownership interest including video clips photographs sound bites copyrighted text trademarks or service marks or any other text or image which any third party may claim intellectual property or other rights indiana if we grant approval you agree to list on the site any website and social media account maintained by us and any other information we require in the manner we dictate. you agree to obtain our prior written approval for any internet domain name home page address and uniform resource locator. the requirement for our prior approval set forth in this section. will apply to all activities on the internet or other communications network to be conducted by you except that you may maintain one or more mail addresses and may conduct individual mail communications without our prior written approval. you agree to obtain our prior approval as provided above if you propose to send advertising to multiple addressees via mail or text messages. you may not use a site to represent that the site is an official account store document of application page or group of or video produced by us or you are the owner of the cold stone creamery brand. on any site you use in connection with the franchised business you must affirmatively state a that you are a franchisee and the opinion and content being expressed are your own and not that of the cold stone creamery brand and the location of your franchised business. continuing working capital requirement. you must have fifteen thousand dollars in working capital at the time you open your franchised business. article. training assistance and start up materials. training program. we will provide up to two natural persons individually and collectively trainees with a training program designed to inform the participants as to the fundamentals of operating the franchised business prior to your opening of the franchised business. at minimum one of the two natural persons must have an ownership interest in the franchised business. the remaining position may be filled by a natural person with an ownership interest in or management responsibility for the franchised business. the training program is made up of the in store training which is approximately eighty hours and new owner training which is approximately forty hours collectively training program. you will be solely responsible for all transportation costs food lodging and other personal expenses incurred by you and your employees in connection with the training program. the new owner training will be conducted either online or in person at our sole discretion. if the new owner training is conducted in person it will be at the franchisor training and education center in scottsdale arizona or at such other location as we may designate at our sole discretion and the in store training will be conducted at a training store in arizona or such other location as we may designate at our sole discretion. you acknowledge that adequate knowledge regarding the operation of the franchised business is essential to the growth of your franchise and to the promotion of the system. notwithstanding the foregoing franchisor has the right to require franchisee and or its manager to attend additional training and pay the additional training fee as defined below as provided for in this section. and section. in the event franchisee is not operating the franchised business pursuant to franchisor systems standards. employee training. you acknowledge that the employees of your cold stone creamery franchised business are an integral and important part of the franchised business as they will have substantial contact with customers. you alone are responsible and acknowledge that we have no direct or indirect control and no right or authority for the hiring firing training supervising setting the terms and conditions of employment including employee tasks and work schedules compensation of your employees or maintaining employment records for the safety of your employees and for your employees compliance with the system standards. the system standards are in place to protect our interests in the system and not for exercising any control over you your employees or your franchised business. you must ensure that your employees who have direct interaction with the public are able to speak and read english and any other store document of language that may be required to adequately meet the public needs in your franchised business. additional programs continuing assistance. we will provide one of our representatives to come to your restaurant during opening week for up to five days at our expense to work with you or your manager on your grand opening and on operating and marketing your restaurant. we may in the future request that trainees participate in refresher or additional training programs. we may also hold an annual conference to introduce new products discuss sales and marketing techniques personnel training advertising programs merchandising procedures and other subjects. you may be charged a nominal registration fee for these programs and you will be solely responsible for the cost of transportation food lodging and other expenses incurred by trainees at any such program. attendance at these additional training programs and conferences is mandatory. they will be held in the metropolitan phoenix arizona area or at other locations in the united states chosen by us at our sole discretion. in addition to the initial training available under section. we shall provide such periodic evaluations or inspections as we deem appropriate utilizing our field representatives who may visit the franchised business from time to time. the frequency and duration of such visits to a franchised business by our representatives shall be in our sole discretion. any such evaluation or inspection is not intended to exercise any control over your employees or the daily operation of your franchised business. in addition we will be available on an ongoing basis at our offices for consultation and guidance with respect to the operation and management of the franchised business. in addition to the confidential manual we may but are not required to from time to time provide you with additional materials relating to the franchised business. area representatives. we may retain the services of an independent third party area representative area representative to represent us in the area in which the restaurant is located and perform some or all of the services we provide under this agreement. the services the area representative may perform could include i assistance in location selection and evaluating and confirming that the location meets our minimum site requirements ii advice and guidance regarding lease negotiations iii assistance in opening new cold stone creamery locations iv assistance with training on the approved pos system as defined in section. a assistance with marketing advice virgin islands periodic quality service cleanliness and experience qsce evaluations vii assistance with collection of the various sums due to us from cold stone creamery franchisees and viii coordination with other cold stone creamery franchisees in your area and general supervision and monitoring of your franchised business on our behalf. you agree in advance to our delegation to an area representative of some or all of our obligations and assignment to an area representative of some or all of our rights under this agreement. you agree that we may require you to submit to an area representative any reports you are required to submit to us. upon our request you will provide the area representative with access inspection and audit rights to the same extent we have those rights under this agreement. you are not a third party beneficiary of any agreement between us and any area representative. if we have designated an area representative for your restaurant as of the effective date the name and contact information of the area representative is shown in section. h we reserve the right in our sole discretion to remove any area representative in your area at any time and to appoint any other area representative for your area. we have no store document of obligation to appoint an area representative in the area in which your restaurant is located and we have no obligation to appoint a new area representative after we have removed an area representative. you acknowledge that area representatives and their owners and employees may not contractually bind us without our express written authorization. you further acknowledge no area representative has the authority to i enter into agreements or execute any agreements on our behalf or ii bind us in any way without our prior written consent. unless expressly authorized and agreed to by us in writing we disavow any agreements whether verbal or written entered into by an area representative that in any way attempts to bind us. in any litigation or arbitration proceeding you agree to waive any claim or defense that an area representative is our express or implied agent and such an assertion by you constitutes a material default under this agreement. confidential manual. to protect the reputation and goodwill of the system and to maintain the uniform standards of operation under the proprietary marks you must conduct your business in accordance with our confidential manual. the confidential manual is confidential and remains our property. the operations manual is available to franchisee via the franchisee portal at https portal.kahalamgmt.com. in the event franchisee desires to receive a hard copy of the operations manual then franchisee shall submit such request in writing to training kahalamgmt.com. upon such request a hard copy of the operations manual will be mailed to franchisee via regular mail within approximately forty five days thereafter. so that you may benefit from new knowledge gained by us as to improved techniques in the operation of the franchised business we may from time to time revise amend restate or supplement the content of the confidential manual or other documents provided by or approved by us as they presently exist or may exist in the future. you will at all times ensure that your copy of the confidential manual is kept current and up to date. in the event of a dispute regarding any of the content of the confidential manual the master copies maintained by us at our corporate office will control. computer systems debit and credit card processing. a prior to the opening of your restaurant you will be required to acquire to maintain and to exclusively use an approved cash register computer system pos system during the operation of the franchised business. you and your employees must complete training for the pos system as we require and you will be required to use the pos system to produce sales reports keep inventory control and post sales tax refunds credits and allowances and submit that information to us immediately upon our request. you are required to obtain high speed always on internet connection service for your pos system. if high speed always on internet is not available in your area dialect up internet access may be used until high speed always on service becomes available in your area. the pos system must be configured so that we will have remote access to the information and data stored in the pos system which may include inventory information. this access will allow us to exchange collect data and other information on such bases as we will communicate to you from time to time. you will be required to maintain the pos system in good working order at all times and to upgrade https nam.safelinks.protection.outlook.com ?url https a folio fportal.kahalamgmt.com folio data county clltuller kahalamgmt.com county county confer dd d county folio folio county county folio ea armed forces europe b east edward county ef county county county cunknown ctwfpbgzsb d eyjwijoimc wljawmdailcjqijoiv lumziilcjbtii ik hawwilcjxvci minnesota d county sdata ea bpqj pb yyxodzjw east io zxatjk isbywoc wro d reserved mailto training kahalamgmt.com. store document of or update the pos system during the term as we may require from time to time. it will be your responsibility to enter into contracts for the maintenance upgrades and updates to the pos system with an approved supplier of such services identified by us on the list of approved vendors and distributors or other notification to you from us advising of suppliers for your market area. you shall also be required to own a personal computer or similar device with access to the internet that allows you to report your gross sales as defined in section. online send and receive mails with us and receive online orders. all cold stone creamery franchisees are required to participate in online ordering and delivery programs which includes entering into one or more participation agreement with one of our affiliates and or other approved vendor for remote online order processing services and delivery services under the terms conditions and fees established by such vendor for the purpose of developing implementing using maintaining supporting updating and or upgrading technologies in connection with the franchise system including web based and or mobile applications and websites. we may charge collect for a third party or require you to remit to a third party amounts used to develop and use technologies within the franchise system. this may include amounts paid to third party delivery service platforms and aggregators. to provide for the inevitable but unpredictable nature to changes to technological needs and opportunities you agree and acknowledge that we shall have the right to establish in writing new standards and fees for developing implementing using maintaining supporting updating and or upgrading technologies in connection with the franchised system. there is no contractual limitation on the frequency and cost of this obligation. we may require you to upgrade the hardware and software including but not limited to your operating system as reasonably necessary to provide reports and information required by us. you are required to accept debit and credit cards and gift loyalty cards from consumers at the franchised business. prior to the opening of your restaurant you will be required to acquire and maintain an approved debit credit and gift loyalty card processing system to use during the operation of the franchised business. additionally you must utilize our approved third party gift loyalty payment card processor for processing all such gift loyalty card transactions including entering into a gift card participation agreement with one of our affiliates or its successors or assigns or other approved vendor for the gift loyalty card processing services. the payment card industry pci requires all companies that process store or transmit credit card information to protect the cardholders information by complying with the pci data security standard pci dss. therefore as a franchisee who accepts credit cards you are required to be pci compliant by following and adhering to pci dss which includes ensuring that your pos system back office computer if supplied and any other device that is plugged into the network is only used for business purposes. you are also required to complete an annual questionnaire and quarterly network pci scans and install a network firewall appliance for logging tracking reporting and security assessment. you are also required to validate with franchisor that your store is pci compliant and franchisor may in its sole discretion require you to install a particular type of firewall hardware and or software. to show such validation you must send us your passing certificate showing your store is pci compliant. you are also required to verify that you have a pci compliant firewall appliance installed at your location if you process credit cards via high speed internet connectivity. we require your franchised business pos system including terminals computers and software to be in compliance with the pci dss at all times. the pci dss is often updated and you are required to obtain and comply with all updated standards. you must also be pci compliant in order to obtain cyber liability data breach insurance coverage. store document of article. fees and deposits you agree to pay each of the following amounts to us via a lump sum with each and every amount being non refundable because of our investment in time and money in addition to any other benefits conferred upon you including processing your application reviewing your documents and providing you with relevant information unless otherwise expressly specified below in accordance with the provisions set forth in this article. notwithstanding your designation to the contrary we have the sole discretion to apply any of your payments in part or in whole to any of your indebtedness to us. initial franchise fee. the initial franchise fee is twenty seven thousand dollars initial franchise fee. the initial franchise fee will be due and payable by you to us by cashier check wire transfer or other form of immediately available funds acceptable to us upon your execution of this agreement. you and we agree that our grant of the franchise and your payment of the initial franchise fee provided for in this section. does not give you any rights with respect to other franchises if any as we in our sole discretion may elect to make available in the future. royalty fee and surcharge. for the period of time commencing on the later of the effective date or the date the franchised business opens to the public and for the duration of the term you must pay to us a weekly royalty fee equal to six percent of total gross sales as defined below royalty fee. if we or the landlord of the location require you to remodel your franchised business in such a way that your franchised business including catering stops offering items to the public or if there is a disaster at your franchised business such as a fire flood or damage caused by an act of god that requires you to temporarily close your franchised business you are not required to pay the royalty fee during the period of time of such temporary closure provided you provide us or our authorized representative with notice of such temporary closure as soon as reasonably possible but in no event more than twenty four hours after such closure begins. notwithstanding the above all amounts owed to us under this agreement prior to the temporary closure shall still be fully due and payable. the temporary closure of your franchised business shall not exceed ninety days but may be extended on a case by case basis at our sole discretion and with our prior written approval. in our sole discretion we may charge in addition to the royalty fee a surcharge of up to ten dollars per week if your franchised business is located in a state that imposes additional reporting requirements on a franchisor surcharge. the royalty fee and applicable surcharge shall be due and payable no later than monday of each week which day may be modified by us without prior notice to or approval from you for the week ending on the preceding tuesday in which applicable gross sales as defined below were earned from the franchised business. the weekly royalty fee and applicable surcharge shall be paid by electronic funds transfer as detailed below. for the period of time commencing on the later of the effective date or the date the franchised business opens to the public and for the duration of the term you are required to report gross sales to our designated accounting office which as of the effective date is via the internet at http franchisee.kahalamgmt.com as set forth in section. nothing herein shall prevent franchisor from electronically polling franchisee pos system restaurant store document of management software and financial records or similar tools thereto daily or more frequently by electronic or other remote means and franchisee hereby grants franchisor authority to do so. you shall be required to establish a depository account as defined in section. at the time you execute this agreement as set forth in section. payment of the royalty fee advertising fee as defined in section. and all other fees due under this agreement to us shall be made via electronic transfer of funds from the depository account. to accomplish this electronic transfer of funds from the depository account you must complete sign and deliver to us and maintain for the duration of the term a current electronic funds transfer authorization in a form that we provide. as used in this agreement gross sales means all sales money or things of value received or receivable directly or indirectly by franchisee on account of the franchised business less applicable sales taxes and any properly documented refunds credits and allowances given by you to customers in accordance with the system standards but without deducting any of your income taxes costs and other expenses. all sales made from catering services must be included in the gross sales. advertising fee. a you must pay to us or directly into a national advertising fund or also any regional advertising funds as designated by us at our sole discretion individually and collectively advertising fund a weekly advertising fee of three percent of the gross sales for the preceding week advertising fee. upon thirty days notice by us to you we may unilaterally increase the advertising fee from its current level not to exceed four percent of your weekly gross sales. the advertising fee shall be due and payable with the royalty fee under section. the advertising fee is our property and may be deposited by us into our general operating account. the advertising fund will be used for marketing advertising production and media expenses to promote the cold stone creamery name system products and services. we are entitled to deduct free of charge the following from the advertising fund i reimbursement of expenses overhead and employee salaries for services provided and ii rent for office space provided to the advertising fundamental we have no fiduciary obligation to you in connection with the operation of any advertising fundamental no interest on an unexpended advertising fee shall be imputed or otherwise charged for the benefit of or payable to you. you understand and agree that the only obligations we have regarding the collection and spending of the advertising fee or the administration of the advertising fund are the express contractual obligations in this section. we are not acting as a trustee fiduciary agent or in any other special capacity. we do not give any representation or warranty regarding the quality or effectiveness of the advertising and marketing activities funded by the advertising fee or of the advertising fund and we will have no liability to you with respect to how these funds are spent. two percent of your gross sales is deposited into the national advertising fund and if a cooperative exists where your franchised business is located the remaining one percent of your gross sales is deposited into the regional advertising fund for your cooperative if no cooperative exists where your franchised business is located your franchised business will be considered a single store cooperative and you must contribute the remaining one percent of your gross sales to the regional advertising fund for your store. your own local marketing and advertising should be developed to maximize your particular customer base. store document of. cooperative advertising. a we encourage the formation and operation of franchisee cooperative advertising associations each an association. each association will help coordinate advertising marketing efforts and programs and attempt to maximize the efficient use of local advertising media. if an association is formed for your region you must contribute financially to the association as required by us. failure to do so will be deemed a breach of this agreement and you may also in franchisor sole discretion lose your right to vote as to decisions regarding advertising and marketing efforts and programs. upon our request you will assist in establishing an association or in deciding how to allocate all or part of any fund contribution we elect to distribute to the association. we will decide in our sole discretion whether to make contributions from the fund to an association and how much to contribute. we reserve the right to establish general standards concerning the operation of an association advertising agencies retained by an association and advertising programs conducted by an association. notwithstanding anything to the contrary no association decision will be made or advertising collections spent without our prior written approval. not applicable. depository account payment procedures. you are required to establish at the time you execute this agreement and maintain for the duration of the term a depository account depository account at a bank or other federally insured financial institution depository. you will initially deposit no less than three thousand dollars into the depository account and are required to maintain a balance of at least three thousand dollars in the depository account at all times during the term by replenishing the depository account to at minimum three thousand dollars after any withdrawals. we shall not be responsible for any bank service charges incurred by you which result from the withdrawal of funds from your depository account. on wednesday of each week you must submit a report to us regarding the weekly period which ended on the preceding tuesday including details on gross sales and other statistical data as provided in this agreement confidential manual or as otherwise specified from time to time by us. we will withdraw funds electronically on monday of each week from the depository account. the withdrawals are based upon the figures you report and constitute the royalty fee and advertising fee as described in sections. and. if you do not submit a report on any wednesday we may estimate the royalty fee and advertising fee based upon prior reports and withdraw the estimated amounts up to the entire three thousand dollars. we will return or credit back to you in our sole discretion any overage within thirty days after our receipt of your report. we shall not be responsible to you for any interest charges for any overage collected due to your failure to timely report your sales. you shall instruct the depository to disburse each week to our designated bank via electronic funds transfer by the close of business on monday or preceding banking business day if monday is a bank holiday the weekly royalty fee and advertising fee and other fees due for that week which week shall end on the preceding sunday. the days of the week specified above may be modified by us without prior notice to or approval from you. store document of we will also withdraw the monthly pos help desk phone support maintenance fee as defined in section. from the depository account on the last thursday of each month. under no circumstances shall such access to the depository account be deemed control or joint control of the depository account by us. subject to reasonable advance notice for non recurring payment amounts we have the right to debit your depository account or any other depository account you have with us according to the terms of your electronic funds transfer authorization for any of the payments described in this agreement. if you do not pay all amounts due by the due date we may suspend our and our affiliates services and support until your payment default is cured. repeated failure to pay all amounts when due whether or not the defaults are subsequently cured may be cause for termination under article. you shall pay us fifty dollars for each electronic funds transfer attempted from your depository account pursuant to this section. that is returned for non sufficient funds. you shall also reimburse us for all other costs and expenses incurred by us in collecting or attempting to collect funds due to us from the depository account for example without limitation charges for non sufficient funds uncollected funds or other discrepancies in deposits or maintenance of the depository account balance in accordance with the terms hereof. the depository account shall be established and maintained solely for the purposes set forth in this section. and any other fees authorized under this agreement and any other agreements between you and us or any of our affiliates. lease review fee. if you request us or one of our designated affiliates to complete a lease review you are required to pay us or our designated affiliate a lease review fee in the amount of two thousand five hundred dollars lease review fee for reviewing and providing comments to your proposed lease. lease guarantee fee. if in order to obtain the lease agreement for the location of your franchised business the landlord requires you to obtain a lease guarantee and we or one of our affiliates agree to serve as such guarantor you will pay us or our affiliate a fee in the amount of ten percent of the total amount of the rental obligations being guaranteed under the lease during its term up to a maximum fee of ten thousand dollars lease guarantee fee. the lease guarantee fee will be due and payable upon our or our affiliate execution of the applicable lease guarantee agreement with the landlord. neither we nor any of our affiliates are required to serve as a guarantor of your lease for the location of your franchised business rather the decision of whether to serve as a guarantor shall be made in our sole discretion. in the event that you request us or our affiliate to either agree to be the tenant under the lease or execute a separate guarantee to the lease and you pay the required lease guarantee fee you agree and acknowledge that payment of the lease guarantee fee shall not in any manner be deemed as an insurance policy which limits your liability in connection with the franchised business including any and all financial liability under the sublease or lease related to the location. you further agree and acknowledge that our or our affiliate agreement to act as tenant or guarantor under the lease and your payment of the lease guarantee fee to us or our affiliate does not result in the assumption or transfer of your liability in connection with the franchised business by or to us or our affiliate. store document of. additional persons training fee. the training of two individuals is included in the initial franchise fee. if you desire to have more than two people attend the training program you must pay an additional training fee of one thousand dollars for each such person to attend the in store training and an additional seven hundred fifty dollars for each such person to attend the new owner training individually and collectively additional persons training fee see section. additional training fee. if after attending the training program you desire to receive additional training we will provide additional training time to you for a fee of three hundred dollars per person per day. such additional training will be at a time reasonably agreed to by you and us and will be conducted at franchisor headquarters online or such other location as we may designate in our sole discretion. you will be solely responsible for all transportation costs and expenses food lodging and other personal costs and expenses incurred by you and your employees in connection with this additional training. document administration fee. document administration fee of five hundred dollars document administration fee is payable to us when we must prepare an amendment to your franchise documents see section. g renewal franchise fee. renewal franchise fee of fifty percent of the then current initial franchise fee not including any discounts or reductions renewal franchise fee is payable to us when you renew this agreement see section.i transfer franchise fee. a not applicable. potential transferee as defined in section. circa receiving this agreement as may be amended in connection with a full transfer as defined in section. a must pay to us a transfer franchise fee of seventeen thousand five hundred dollars transfer franchise fee. relocation fee. relocation fee of five hundred dollars relocation fee is payable to us when you sign the amendment to your franchise agreement for your relocation see section. not applicable. annual meeting registration fee. if we hold an annual meeting meeting the meeting may be held at various locations throughout the united states and or online as we may designate in our sole discretion. because store document of the planning and funding of the meeting must be done well in advance and requires a substantial financial commitment we have the right to debit your depository account for up to one thousand dollars for the meeting registration fee at any time sixty to ninety days prior to the first day of the meeting. this fee may be debited from your account even if you do not attend the meeting. you will also be solely responsible for all costs incidental to attending the meeting. if you do not attend the meeting we will make available to you one full set of the substantive materials that were presented at the meeting. late report interest late charge non sufficient funds fee breaching royalties draft draw charge. if you fail to submit to us any financial statements forms reports or records required to be provided under this agreement by its due date including your weekly gross sales report for calculating your royalty fee and advertising fee you must pay to us a late report charge of one hundred dollars per week or part thereof. if any fees or assessments due under this agreement including the royalty fee and advertising fee are not paid when due interest shall accrue on the late payment from the date payment is due until the date payment is made at the default rate which amount plus a late charge of five percent of the unpaid amount or one hundred dollars whichever is greater shall be added to each late payment. for any payments made by you to us under this agreement which are returned for non sufficient funds of a processed check you shall be charged a non sufficient funds fee of twenty five dollars per occurrence. pursuant to section. for each electronic funds transfer that is attempted from the depository account but returned for non sufficient funds you shall be charged a fifty dollars non sufficient funds fee per occurrence. franchisor has the absolute right to charge franchisee the greater of three times the fixed royalty fee or if on a percentage royalty fee the royalty fee will be increased up to eighteen percent of gross sales with respect to any period during which franchisee is in breach or default of its his her obligations under this agreement. the royalty fees paid or owing to franchisor with respect to the period during which franchisee is in breach or default are referred to as breaching royalties. breaching royalties will be charged for a minimum fourteen day period regardless of the length of the actual breach or default. if you fail to provide us any necessary information or documentation with respect to our practice of drawing drafts against your bank accounts you must pay us a draft draw charge in the amount of one hundred dollars per day that that failure continues. if as a result of your failure to remit payments required under any provision of this agreement we retain an attorney or a collection agency to collect such payments you must pay all collection costs and expenses including reasonable attorneys fees and expenses whether or not legal proceedings are initiated. our rights under this section. are in addition to any other rights or remedies that we may have as a result of your default under this agreement. audit fees. for the purpose of this section. we have the right at any time during business hours and with or without prior notice to you to inspect and audit or cause to be inspected and audited the business records cash control devices bookkeeping and accounting records sales store document of and income tax records and returns and other records of the franchised business and your entity books and records. you hereby grant us access to any computers utilized by you for such purposes and we will have the ability at all times via modem to obtain daily and weekly sales reports and other financial records that the pos system provides. you will fully cooperate with our representatives the area representative if applicable and independent accountants hired by us to conduct any such inspection or audit. in addition in the event such inspection or audit is made necessary by your failure to furnish reports supporting records or other information as required herein or to furnish such reports records or information on a timely basis or if an understatement of gross sales resulting in an underpayment of the royalty fee or advertising fee for the period of any audit which shall not be for less than one month is determined by any such audit or inspection to be five percent or greater you will pay to us immediately after receipt of the inspection or audit report any additional royalty fee and advertising fee and other amounts due as a result of any such understatement plus interest at the default rate from the date originally due until the date of payment and you must reimburse us for such audit or inspection including the charges of any independent accountants and the travel expenses room board and compensation of such accountants and our employees. the remedies in this section. will be in addition to all other remedies and rights available to us under this agreement or otherwise available. data fee. we may require you to pay us or a third party we designate a data fee of up to seventy five dollars per month for polling or collecting data from your pos system. pos help desk phone support maintenance service fee. you must purchase from us a help desk phone support maintenance service that covers phone support for both the software and hardware of your pos system that is supported by the help desk the cost of which is currently sixty dollars monthly and subject to increase upon thirty days notice pos help desk phone support maintenance service fee. the pos help desk phone support maintenance service fee shall be paid by electronic funds transfer as detailed in section. and debited from your account on the last thursday of each month. new supplier approval fee. all requests for approving new or alternative suppliers must be submitted in writing by you or the supplier to our purchasing department. each request will be reviewed in accordance with our then current procedures and the supplier must meet our then current requirements which may include that our representatives be allowed to inspect the facilities of the proposed supplier and that samples from the proposed supplier be delivered at no charge either to us or to our designee for testing. charge not to exceed the amounts incurred in connection with the inspection and the test with such cumulative amount not to exceed five thousand dollars must be paid by the supplier. if approved in our sole discretion we will notify you or the supplier in writing within sixty days after our receipt of an approval request. you must not offer or sell in any manner any of the proposed alternative supplier products until you receive our written approval of the proposed alternative supplier. store document of. reserved. non participation fee. you must offer and sell at the location of the franchised business all products designated by us consistent with our system standards. in addition you must immediately incorporate into the franchised business all new products and services designated by us and must fully participate in all local regional seasonal promotional and other programs initiatives and campaigns adopted by us in which we require you to participate. if you fail or refuse to fully participate in any such program initiative or campaign you may in our sole discretion be required to pay a non participation fee of one hundred dollars per day that you are not in compliance non participation fee. grand opening marketing. ten thousand dollars grand opening marketing is payable to us on the earlier of i prior to you executing a lease for the premises where the franchised business will be located or ii prior to construction commencing at the premises where the franchised business will be located. we or our designated affiliate will create a marketing plan for i a grand opening event at your franchised business and ii the initial advertising of your franchised business and will work with you to obtain your input on the marketing plan. we or our designated affiliate will use the grand opening marketing to pay for the grand opening and initial advertising but may in our sole discretion reimburse you for some local store marketing expenses that you pay if you received our prior approval. the grand opening marketing should be used within six months of the opening of your franchised business to the public. however if a portion of the grand opening marketing is not used within those six months we may in our discretion spend the remaining portion of the grand opening marketing after six months from the opening of your franchised business to the public. through. not applicable. article. proprietary marks. ownership and right to use. we warrant to you that a we are the owner of all right title and interest in and to the proprietary marks. we have granted to you the personal non exclusive limited revocable right and license to use the proprietary marks in connection with the operation of your franchised business. we have taken and will take all steps reasonably necessary to preserve and protect our rights in the proprietary marks and. we will only permit you to use the proprietary marks in accordance with the system standards. store document of. covenants of franchise owners. a you acknowledge our ownership of the proprietary marks and you agree that during the term and after its expiration or termination you will not directly or indirectly contest or aid in contesting the validity of the proprietary marks or our ownership of the proprietary marks nor will you take any action which might impair or prejudice our ownership of the proprietary marks. you shall not directly or indirectly apply to register register or otherwise seek to own or control any of the proprietary marks or any confusingly similar mark thereto whether in whole or in part in any place or jurisdiction either within or outside of the united states nor will you assist any others to do so. you agree that the license granted pursuant to this agreement authorizes you to use the proprietary marks solely in connection with the franchised business only at the location and for no other purpose. you have no right to license or sublicense any aspect of the system standards or any of the proprietary marks. you agree to use the proprietary marks only in the manner and to the extent specifically licensed by this agreement. you further agree that any unauthorized use or continued use of the proprietary marks after the termination or expiration of this agreement will constitute irreparable harm and is subject to injunctive relief. the license granted by this agreement includes only the proprietary marks now existing or which may exist in the future. this license does not include the right to use any other trademarks service marks trade name or trade dress owned by us or our licensor anywhere in the world. you agree that any and all goodwill associated with and identified by your use of the proprietary marks will inure directly and exclusively to our benefit and that on the expiration or termination of this agreement no monetary amount will be due or payable to you as a result of any goodwill associated with your ownership or operation of the franchised business. limitations on franchisee use of proprietary marks. to develop and maintain high and uniform standards of quality and service and thereby protect our reputation and goodwill and that of the system you agree a to operate and advertise the franchised business only under the proprietary marks authorized by us. to adopt and use the proprietary marks licensed by this agreement solely in the manner prescribed by us. that your corporate partnership or other entity name including trade name will not include any of the proprietary marks in whole or in part or any terms confusingly similar thereto unless first authorized by us in writing. to submit all advertising promotional materials and all printed matter including stationery business cards and any materials to be used on the internet to us for our written approval before you use any of these items and. that we may from time to time change or modify the system standards including modifying existing proprietary marks or adopting new marks. you agree at your own store document of expense to adopt use and display any such new or modified proprietary marks within ninety days after notification from us. however if we require you to modify or discontinue use of our proprietary information or use other information or rights in its place at any time other than upon renewal of this agreement and that requirement is a direct result of proceedings or litigation that determined that our and our franchisees use of the proprietary information infringed upon a third party rights we or our affiliate will bear the actual direct and reasonable costs of those modifications or discontinuances. the rights granted to franchisee under this section shall be franchisee sole and exclusive remedy for any infringement by any part of the system. upon your abandonment of the franchised business whether voluntary or involuntary termination or expiration of this agreement you must immediately cease to use in any manner whatsoever any of the proprietary marks or any other marks which in whole or in part may be confusingly similar to any of the proprietary marks. non exclusive license of proprietary marks. you understand and agree that your license to use the proprietary marks is non exclusive that we in our sole discretion can grant to other franchisees the right to use the proprietary marks and obtain the benefits of the system standards in addition to the licenses and rights granted to you under this agreement and that we or our affiliates may develop and license other proprietary marks in conjunction with concepts other than the cold stone creamery concept on any terms and conditions we deem advisable. you will have no right or interest in any such other licenses proprietary marks or systems. notification of infringement and claims. you agree that you will notify us immediately of any apparent infringement of or challenge to your use of any of the proprietary marks or any claim by any person of any rights in any of the proprietary marks. you agree that you will not communicate with any person other than us and our legal counsel in connection with any such infringement challenge or claim. we will have the sole discretion to take such action as we may deem appropriate to protect the proprietary marks and the exclusive right to control any litigation united states patent and trademark office proceeding or other proceeding arising out of any such infringement challenge claim or otherwise relating to any proprietary marks. you agree to execute any and all instruments and documents render such assistance and do such acts and things as may in the opinion of our counsel be necessary or advisable to protect and maintain our interests in connection with any such litigation or proceeding or to otherwise protect and maintain our interests in the proprietary marks. article. trade secrets and proprietary information. innovations. during the term you and your principals officers managers and employees may conceive inventory create design or develop various ideas techniques methods processes and procedures recipes formulae products packaging or other concepts and features relating to restaurant operations business practices or the manufacturing production marketing and sale of super premium ice cream cakes pies smoothies shakespeare specialty beverages other dessert with frozen confections and other food and beverage items and related goods now in existence or later developed adopted or improved in connection with the franchised business store document of individually and collectively innovations. you without further consideration hereby assign any and all of your rights title and interest in the innovations including any intellectual property rights to us and also agree to cooperate with us and our counsel in the protection of the innovations including the perfecting of title thereto in us. in addition you will require all of your principals officers managers and employees to sign an agreement in the form set forth in our system standards and incorporated herein by reference confidentiality agreement and shall be liable to us for obligating your principals officers managers and employees to assign all of their rights title and interest to the innovations to us and requiring your principals officers managers and employees to cooperate in obtaining protecting maintaining and enforcing our right title and interest in the innovations. confidentiality agreement. a in connection with the operation of the franchised business you will from time to time receive have access to or learn certain information and materials that are proprietary to us or our affiliate. you and any person signing this agreement under the heading personal acceptance of sections. and. agree that you will keep confidential and will not use for your own purposes nor supply or divulge to any other person any of our trade secrets including our methods of operation processes techniques formulae and procedures information a reasonable person would believe to be confidential and any other proprietary information regardless of whether such is expressly marked as confidential confidential information. you acknowledge that much of the information imparted to you by us is confidential constitutes trade secrets are unique to us and remains our sole exclusive property. our confidential information includes the following. the confidential manual and any amendments thereto. ingredients recipes and methods of preparation of food products. methods of operation of cold stone creamery restaurants. information about products services or procedures before they become public knowledge. information which relates in any manner to our business or the system standards whether oral or reduced to writing and which is not generally known to or readily ascertainable by other persons who might derive economic benefit from its disclosure or use and. any other information which may be imparted to you from time to time and designated by us as confidential. you and any person signing this agreement under the heading personal acceptance of sections. and. acknowledge and agree that the confidential information and any business goodwill of the franchised business is our sole and exclusive property and that you will preserve the confidentiality thereof. upon termination or expiration of this agreement all items records or documentation recording or incorporating any confidential information including any copies thereof will be immediately turned over by you to us or our authorized representative. store document of. you agree to take all steps necessary at your own expense to protect the confidential information including our trade secrets and to adopt and implement all reasonable procedures prescribed by us from time to time to prevent the unauthorized use or disclosure of any of the confidential information. we require that all of your executive officers agents directors shareholders trustees beneficiaries partners and managers who may or are likely to obtain knowledge concerning the proprietary information and who do not sign this agreement under the heading personal acceptance of sections. and. sign the confidentiality agreement binding such person to preserve the confidentiality of the confidential information as part of the terms and conditions of such person employment or association with you. you must obtain a confidentiality agreement signed by any such person prior to or at the same time that you begin employment of or association with that person. this will be a continuing obligation on your part throughout the term. you must keep each original signed confidentiality agreement and provide us with a copy of each confidentiality agreement when requested by us or our authorized representative. notwithstanding the above confidential information shall not include information which you can reasonably prove i entered the public domain through no breach by you or your affiliate of any duty of confidentiality or ii you received our prior express written consent to disclose in the manner in which you disclosed it. if anyone under a confidentiality agreement is legally compelled or required by a regulatory body to disclose any confidential information he she it will notify us as soon as possible and will use his her its best efforts to obtain and give us an opportunity to obtain appropriate assurances of confidential treatment. the requirements under this section. will remain in full force and effect during the term and after termination or expiration of this agreement. article. relationship of the parties and indemnification. relationship of the parties. you and we agree that this agreement does not create any fiduciary or employment relationship between you or any of your employees and us that you are an independent contractor and that nothing in this agreement is intended to make either you or us a general or special agent legal representative subsidiary joint venture partner employee or servant of the other for any purpose. you shall not enter into any agreement on behalf of or otherwise bind us for any purpose. should it ever be asserted that franchisor is the employer joint employer or colorado employer of any of your or your affiliate employees in any private or government investigation action proceeding arbitration or other setting you irrevocably agree to assist franchisor in defending said allegation including if necessary appearing at any venue requested by franchisor to testify on our behalf and as may be necessary submitting itself to depositions other appearances and or preparing affidavits dismissive of any allegation that franchisor is the employer joint employer or colorado employer of any of your employees. indemnification of franchisor. store document of you agree to indemnify defend and hold us and our affiliates including our parent and subsidiary companies current past and future predecessors successors and assigns and each of our shareholders owners directors officers members managers partners joint venturers attorneys employees contractors agents representatives guarantors insurers spouses heirs executors trustees and estates collectively with us indemnified parties harmless for from and against any and all claims liabilities causes of action suits debts duties accounts covenants contracts agreements promises taxes demands obligations costs and expenses including reasonable attorneys fees damages judgments and proceedings of every kind and nature whatsoever whether actual or threatened in law or equity or otherwise under local state or federal law including without limitation the americans with disabilities act ada or the law of any other applicable jurisdiction individually and collectively claims suffered or incurred by any of the indemnified parties arising out of or relating to your construction ownership marketing promotions as defined in article operation including your failure to comply with pci dss or any law statute regulation order rule or ordinance or management of the franchised business except for claims held to have resulted solely from our gross negligence or willful misconduct. notwithstanding the foregoing we will have the right at our option to defend any claim but you must reimburse us upon demand for the costs and expenses of such defense. you shall immediately give us notice of any demand investigation written inquiry action suit proceeding or claim in any way related to us or the cold stone creamery brand. indemnification of franchisee. we agree to indemnify defend and hold you and your affiliates and their shareholders directors officers members managers partners employees agents successors and assignees harmless for from and against any and all claims arising out of any claim of infringement or unfair competition in connection with your authorized use of the proprietary marks or confidential information provided that such use is in accordance with the provisions of this agreement. however if we require you to modify or discontinue use of our proprietary marks or confidential information or use other information or rights in its place at any time other than upon renewal of this agreement and that requirement is a direct result of proceedings or litigation that determined that our and our franchisees use of the proprietary marks or confidential information infringed upon a third party rights we will bear the cost of those modifications or discontinuances as set forth in this agreement. special power of attorney. you agree to cooperate with and assist us as we may request from time to time to obtain protect maintain or enforce our intellectual property and proprietary marks including executing documents and appearing as a witness. you hereby appoint us as your attorney of fact and hereby grant us an irrevocable special power of attorney coupled with an interest with full power and authority for the purpose of executing documents or taking such action as necessary or appropriate as you might or could do if personally present hereby ratifying all that we as your attorney in fact shall lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue of this special power of attorney to obtain protect maintain or enforce our intellectual property and proprietary marks if we are for any reason unable to obtain your cooperation or assistance. the special power of attorney granted by this section. shall survive your dissolution death incompetence or disability and the termination or expiration of this agreement. store document of article. operating standards and duties of franchise owner. compliance with system standards and confidential manual. you understand and acknowledge that every detail of the operation of the franchised business is important in order to develop and maintain high and uniform standards of quality cleanliness appearance service facilities and techniques to increase the demand for the system and to protect our reputation and goodwill and that of other cold stone creamery franchisees. you also acknowledge that the operation of the franchised business is your sole responsibility and that neither we nor our affiliates have any responsibility to obtain customers for you. the system standards will constitute provisions of this agreement as if fully set forth herein. authorized products and services. a you agree that you will not without our prior written approval offer at the location any menu items beverages products or services that are not authorized by us for the franchised business as set forth in the system standards. you have complete discretion in establishing the minimum price you charge for your products. although we may suggest pricing strategy you will have the final pricing decision. notwithstanding the terms of section. b we may conduct periodic promotional campaigns during which a specified product or products are promoted at a specified price. during the promotional period you may not charge your customers more than the specified promotional price although you may charge less than the promotional price. we may conduct new marketing research and development branding and operational program tests which will generally be conducted with experienced existing franchisees and may include incentives and other rights that are not available to all franchisees. you hereby consent to third party vendors suppliers and distributors sharing with us any and all information reports invoices and related documentation covering and otherwise detailing your purchases for the franchised business and to us sharing your contact information with them when we reasonably believe they may offer you a desired benefit. you are required to accept debit and credit cards including visa mastercard and american express and gift loyalty cards from consumers at the franchised business. prior to the opening of your franchised business you are required to acquire and maintain during the term an approved debit credit and gift loyalty card processing system card processing system to use during the operation of the franchised business. additionally you must utilize our approved third party payment card processor as identified in the system standards for processing all card processing system transactions. specifications and standards for supplies approved suppliers rollouts. a you must purchase or otherwise acquire certain proprietary or required equipment and supplies utilized in the franchised business only from our designated approved distributors or suppliers. if during the term we change designated approved distributors or store document of suppliers for any of the proprietary or required equipment and supplies utilized in the franchised business you shall change to the new designated approved distributor or supplier within sixty days after written notification of such change from us. you acknowledge franchisor and or its affiliates has the right to receive commissions volume discounts purchase discounts performance payments bonuses rebates marketing and advertising allowances colorado op advertising administrative fees enhancements price discounts economic benefits and or other payments payments based upon the actual purchases of the foods beverages and other products by franchisor its affiliates area developers and franchisees from suppliers. any such payments made to franchisor may be retained by franchisor or distributed to franchisees in such amounts and using such allocation methods as franchisor deems appropriate in its sole discretion. all payments received from a supplier for a designated purpose such as participation at an annual convention et cetera will be spent in accordance with the supplier designated purpose. if you desire to purchase or otherwise acquire any equipment supplies or inventory items required by the system standards but not previously approved by us or from sources not previously approved by us you must submit to us sufficient specifications photographs drawings and other information sufficient to allow us to determine whether such equipment supplies or inventory items meet our system standards. we may require that our representatives be allowed to inspect the facilities of the proposed supplier and revoke its approval upon the supplier failure to meet any of our then current minimum system standards. we may also require that samples from the proposed supplier be delivered at no charge to us either to us or to our designee for testing. charge not to exceed the reasonable cost and expense of the inspection and the actual cost and expense of the test must be paid to us either by you or by the proposed supplier. we will notify you within sixty days after your request of our approval or disapproval of the proposed product or supplier with such determination to be made at our sole discretion. you acknowledge and agree that our approval of any item or supplier of equipment supplies or inventory not previously approved by us will not in and of itself make the supplier of that item an approved supplier for other cold stone creamery franchise owners in the system. we may in our sole discretion at any time and from time to time re inspect the facilities and products of any approved supplier and revoke its approval upon the supplier failure to meet any of our then current system standards. if you receive a notice of revocation from us you must immediately stop selling disapproved products and purchasing from the disapproved supplier. we will provide to you a list of all recommended and required items of equipment fixtures supplies smallwares and interior decor. this list will be included in the system standards. at any time and from time to time we may in our sole option engage in new product rollouts to add to or change the menu items offered for sale in the franchised business and the ingredients or supplier of ingredients utilized in the preparation of the menu items sold in the franchised business rollout. if we engage in a rollout you shall participate in the changes that are the subject of such rollout including offering the new menu items changing the menu items changing to the new supplier of the ingredients utilized in the preparation of the menu items and changing to the new ingredients utilized in the preparation of the menu items. if we engage in a rollout we will notify you of the details of the rollout and provide you sixty days from said notification to take the applicable actions required by the rollout. store document of. compliance with legal requirements and good business practices. you must at your sole expense operate the franchised business in full compliance with all applicable federal state and local statutes laws ordinances and regulations including health and safety regulations food and drug laws disability laws labor and employment laws and data privacy laws as may be amended supplemented or enacted from time to time. you must pay all costs and expenses incurred by and in the conduct of the franchised business including all rent salaries taxes excluding our income taxes disbursements license or permit fees insurance premiums traveling expenses and any other business expenses. if you receive any demand action suit or proceeding or the issuance of any order writings injunction award or decree of any court agency or other governmental instrumentality relating to your franchised business you must immediately notify us and in no event later than three days after your receipt. any such notice must be accompanied by a copy of the demand complaint order writings injunction award decree or other similar document. you must in all dealings with your employees customers suppliers the public and us adhere to the highest standards of honesty integrity fair dealing and ethical conduct. you agree to refrain from any business practice that may be injurious to the system or the goodwill associated with the proprietary marks. maintenance of insurance. at all times during the term you must maintain in full force and effect at least the minimum types and amounts of insurance coverage that we require. under one or more policies of insurance each of which shall be primary coverage and shall not be contributory or secondary to any other coverage maintained by us insured under the particular name of the franchisee and for the particular address of the franchised business. such insurance policies must be issued by insurers acceptable to us having an. best financial strength rating of at minimum viii and grant us authority to obtain copies of your certificate of insurance directly from the carrier or your agent broker. the particular requirements of our minimum insurance coverage will be made available to you throughout your term. currently the general liability insurance required by this agreement must i name kahala franchising. as the certificate holder ii name kahala franchising. and mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated and their parents subsidiaries affiliates officers directors and employees as additional insureds iii contain a waiver by the insurance carrier of all subrogation rights against us and our affiliates and our affiliates respective officers directors and employees for casualty losses iv indicate the address of the franchised business being insured and provide that we will receive a copy via an endorsement thirty days prior notice of cancellation of any such policy. additional minimum insurance coverage requirements subject to increase or otherwise change in our sole discretion are as follows type of coverage limits specifications general liability bodily injury property damage per occurrence aggregate building improvements and betterments of full replacement cost no coinsurance minimum of business personal property of full replacement cost no coinsurance special form or equivalent store document of type of coverage limits specifications minimum of spoilage flood earthquake and volcanic eruption subject to territory limitations required if in a designated flood zone workers compensation and employer liability insurance as required by law employment practices liability insurance with franchisor defense coverage hired and non owned automobile liability combined single limit per accident you need to evaluate if your particular business will require greater coverage or other types of insurance. for example we strongly recommend that you consult with an insurance broker to discuss whether your particular lease situation requires and or should obtain additional common types of insurance including without limitation umbrella insurance and cyber liability data breach insurance coverage. such insurance may significantly increase your premiums but may also save you money in the long run. you are responsible for maintaining insurance coverage and limits as required by us at minimum pursuant to this section. provided if your landlord requires additional coverage higher limits or any other requirements not required by us then you are responsible for maintaining such additional items as well. you must always keep the required insurance coverage in force at all times during the operation of the franchised business and you must comply with any changes we make periodically to our insurance requirements. upon days notice to you we may require you to increase and or otherwise change the minimum coverage of the insurance referred to above including to reflect identification of special risks changes in law or standards of liability higher damage awards or other relevant changes in circumstances. subject to section. before you may open your restaurant annually thereafter at least ten days prior to renewal of your insurance coverage and at any other time on our request you must provide us with certificates of insurance or copies of insurance policies showing that you are in compliance with our insurance requirements as well as proof that you have paid the premiums you owe for the insurance we require. you will pay your insurance premiums to your insurance broker or to the insurance company issuing the policy. we or our affiliate may at our option and in addition to our other rights and remedies under this agreement obtain such insurance coverage on your behalf and you must promptly execute any applications or other forms or instruments required to obtain any such insurance and pay to us on demand any costs expenses and premiums in whole or part incurred by us. your obligation to obtain and maintain the insurance described above will not be limited in any way by reason of any insurance maintained by us nor will your performance of such obligations relieve you of any obligations under section. management of the franchised business. you are directly responsible for all aspects of operating the franchised business and you agree that you will at all times operate the franchised business and use your best efforts to enhance your franchised business and the system. the franchised business must be store document of personally managed and directly operated by either you or another partner shareholder or member of your business organization or a manager. inspections by franchisor. for the purpose of this section. you must make available to us or our authorized representatives such financial and other information concerning the franchised business and you must permit us or our authorized representatives to have full and free access to such information at your franchised business location during regular business hours without prior notice. we and our authorized representatives will have the right to communicate freely with your employees and make extracts from and copies of all such information. our authorized representative may make announced or unannounced inspections of your franchised business to ensure compliance with all of the requirements of this agreement. personal guaranty non disclosure and non competition agreement. if you are an individual and married your spouse must execute and deliver to us a guaranty of franchise agreement and a non disclosure and non competition agreement at the same time that you sign the agreement unless your spouse is also singing the agreement as an individual. if you are a corporation limited liability company or other business entity each of your shareholders members or other owners whether direct or indirect and their respective spouses if married must execute and deliver to us a guaranty of franchise agreement and a non disclosure and non competition agreement at the same time that you sign this agreement. in the event any person who has not previously signed a guaranty of franchise agreement or a non disclosure and non competition agreement becomes your spouse or shareholder member or other owner direct or indirect or a spouse of such shareholders members or other owner at any time after the execution of this agreement you must cause such person to immediately execute and deliver a guaranty of franchise agreement and a non disclosure and non competition agreement to us. failure to provide a guaranty of franchise agreement or a non disclosure and non competition agreement to us may in our sole discretion be grounds for termination of this agreement as set forth in section. a not applicable. article. advertising and promotion. advertising by franchisor. we or at our election a third party which may be an affiliate of ours will administer the advertising fund that will include your advertising fee and those of other franchise owners in the system. if an affiliate of ours administers the advertising fund or places advertising in connection with the system such affiliate may be paid a fee that will not exceed the fee that would be payable to unrelated third parties for comparable services. unless required by applicable law we will have no obligation to create a trust account escrow account or other store document of special account for the advertising fund and the monies comprising the advertising fund may be placed in our general account. we may also reserve the advertising fee for use in a subsequent year. we will direct all advertising and promotional programs. we will have sole discretion over all creative concepts materials and media used in such programs and the placement and allocation of such programs. the advertising fund will be used for marketing advertising production and media expenses to promote the cold stone creamery trade name system products and services. we are entitled to deduct free of charge the following from the advertising fund reimbursement of expenses overhead and employee salaries for services provided and rent for office space provided to the advertising fundamental we are not required to use any specific amounts from the advertising fund in your market. however we in our sole discretion may use some amounts contributed by you to any advertising fund if any see section. in the same geographic area in which your franchised business is located. advertising by franchisee. in addition to your advertising fee if applicable and your grand opening promotional advertising program required under section. and unless your franchised business is located in an enclosed shopping mall or other enclosed structure identified in section. you agree to pay for a regular white pages and classified yellow pages telephone directory advertisement in the main directory distributed in the area where your franchised business is located in such directory categories as we specify utilizing forms of listing and classified directory advertisements approved by us. we also recommend that in addition to your advertising fee you spend at least two percent of your monthly gross sales on local advertising. your own local marketing and advertising plan should be developed to maximize your particular customer base. you should not rely upon a marketing program or plan by us as the sole means of obtaining customers. all marketing and advertising materials must be reviewed by the marketing department for look and feel. the marketing department review is not for determining compliance with federal state and local laws. all advertising by you in any medium must be conducted in a professional manner and must conform to the system standards. we may make available to you from time to time advertising promotional plans and materials for purchase. under no circumstances may you use without limitation the name image or voice of a celebrity public figure character or other person in connection with the proprietary marks or the franchised business without our prior written consent. we retain the sole and exclusive right to use without limitation the name services or image of any celebrity public figure character or other person in advertising endorsing or recommending the system. article. accounting procedures and reports. maintenance of records. you shall keep full complete and accurate books and accounts in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and in the form and manner indicated below or as store document of from time to time further required by us. you agree to submit reports and data to us electronically if we advise you to do so. you agree a to submit to us electronically the weekly gross sales as set forth in section. to submit to us on or before the thirtieth th day of each month commencing with the opening of the franchised business in a format and method approved by us including through a third party vendor that franchisee may be required to pay for a profit and loss statement of the franchised business for the preceding calendar month prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. to submit to us within ninety days after the end of each calendar year commencing with the opening of the franchised business in a format approved by us a profit and loss statement and balance sheet including a statement of retained earnings or partnership account for the preceding calendar year. to submit to us at the times required such other periodic forms reports and information as may from time to be time be required by us. to preserve in the english language and for the time periods set forth below all accounting records and supporting documents related to the franchised business individually and collectively records including. daily cash reports. cash receipts journal and general ledger. cash disbursements journal and weekly payroll register. monthly bank statements daily deposit slips and canceled checks. all tax returns including your personal returns and those of your officers shareholders partners and members. suppliers invoices paid and unpaid. dated cash register tapes detailed and summary. semi annual balance sheets and monthly profit and loss statements. daily production throwaway and finishing records and weekly inventories. records of promotion and coupon redemptions. records of all outside sales and. such other records as we may from time to time request. to record all sales on cash registers approved by us as specified in the confidential manual store document of. to file all of your federal and state tax returns on a timely basis and to provide copies of them to us. we may where applicable require that tax returns from all of your shareholders members or partners be provided to us if you are other than an individual. during the term you shall preserve the records for at least the current fiscal year and for the three immediately preceding fiscal years. for three years after the date of any transfer of an interest in this agreement the transferor of such interest will preserve the records for its last three fiscal years of operation under this agreement. for three years after the expiration of the term or after any earlier termination you shall preserve the records for the last three fiscal years of operation of the franchised business and i in connection with our efforts to attract additional franchise owners to the system we will have the right to use without identifying you except as required or allowed by law any financial statements sales reports profit and loss statements or balance sheets provided by you and in connection therewith you authorize us to disclose any information contained on such financial reports as may be required by any federal or state registration or disclosure law. audit by franchisor. we will have the right at any time during business hours and with or without prior notice to you to inspect and audit or cause to be inspected and audited the records and cash control devices of the franchised business and your corporate partnership or limited liability company books and records if you are a corporation partnership limited liability company or other entity. you agree that we may access any computers utilized by you for such purposes. you will fully cooperate with our authorized representatives and independent accountants hired by us to conduct any such inspection or audit. in the event any such inspection or audit discloses an understatement of your gross sales for any period in question you will pay to us immediately after receipt of the inspection or audit report any additional royalty fee or advertising fee due as a result of any such understatement plus interest at the default rate from the date originally due until the date such understatement is paid in full. in addition in the event such inspection or audit is made necessary by your failure to timely furnish records or if an understatement of the royalty fee or advertising fee for the period of any audit which period shall not be for less than one month is determined by any such audit or inspection to be five percent or greater you must reimburse us all amounts incurred in connection with such audit or inspection including our employee costs and expenses any independent accountants and attorneys fees transportation room and meal expenses. the remedies in this section. will be in addition to all our other remedies and rights under this agreement or under applicable law. article. transfer sections. through. apply to all transfers except transfers by us which are described in section. store document of. prior consent of franchisor. a as used in this agreement transfer means any voluntary involuntary including by operation of law direct or indirect assignment sale gift or other transfer by you including. full transfer which is any act or circumstance except those set forth in section.a by which fifty percent or more of the ownership or control is shifted from any individual or corporation partnership or other business entity individually and collectively entity to another including i transfer of this agreement or the franchised business or any right or interest granted by this agreement ii transfer of an interest in you if you are an entity iii merger consolidation or issuance of additional ownership interests or redemption of ownership interests in you if you are an entity or iv transfer of an interest in any other entity holding an interest in this agreement or you if you are an entity. affiliate transfer which includes i transfer in a separation or divorce regardless of how much of the ownership or control is shifted from any individual or entity to another ii transfer of this agreement or the franchised business or any right or interest granted by this agreement from your name as an individual to your entity name in which you are the sole owner of the entity iii transfer of this agreement or the franchised business or any right or interest granted by this agreement from your entity name in which you are the sole owner to your name as an individual iv transfer of this agreement or the franchised business or any right or interest granted by this agreement from one entity name to another entity name in which the owners of the entities are the same removing an owner from the franchisee unless the person has a fifty percent or more ownership interest virgin islands adding an owner to the franchisee unless the person has a fifty percent or more ownership interest or vii transfer by which less than fifty percent of the ownership or control is shifted from any individual or entity to another for any act or circumstance listed in section.a we are entering into this agreement based upon our knowledge of and faith in your ability. therefore the franchised business and all the rights granted by this agreement are personal to you and you may not transfer without our prior written consent. any attempted store document of transfer without our prior written consent will be null and void and will give us the right to terminate this agreement and your rights under it in addition to any remedies which we may have for the breach of this covenant by reason of an attempted transfer. we shall not unreasonably withhold or delay our consent to a transfer so long as it is shown to our satisfaction that the potential transferee potential transferee can perform a franchisee obligations under the then current form of franchise agreement and all other agreements legal instruments and documents required of new franchisees. advance notice of proposed terms and right of first refusal. a if you or any of your shareholders members or partners have received and desire to accept a signed bona fide written offer from a third party to transfer you shall notify us and provide us with a complete copy of the offer letter of intent which must include the name address and telephone number for every potential transferee. you must also include information as to the identity of all who will own an interest in this agreement or in the franchised business after the completion of the transfer their respective interests and the proposed terms and conditions of sale and payment. we shall have the right and option exercisable within thirty days after the date we receive a copy of the offer to purchase the interest proposed to be transferred at the price and upon the same terms and conditions specified in the notice. if we do not exercise our option and the terms of the unaccepted offer are altered you must in each such instance notify us of the changed offer and we will again have thirty days to exercise our right to purchase on the altered terms. if we do not exercise our option then the transfer may take place on the terms and price set forth in the notice provided i we give our written consent ii the transfer takes place no later than six months from receipt of our written refusal to exercise our option to purchase and iii all the conditions set forth in section. are satisfied. requirement for consent to transfer. if a transfer is proposed and we do not exercise our right of first refusal pursuant to section. then we will consent to the transfer provided that a all your obligations under this agreement are fully paid and satisfied including the royalty fee and advertising fee you are not in default under any provisions of this agreement or any other agreement legal instrument or document with us or any of our affiliates and you enter into written agreements with us including except where prohibited by law a general release by you of all claims against us. potential transferee provides to us a completed application and financial documents is financially acceptable is not associated with any of our competitors is of good moral character and reputation and meets our criteria which includes work experience and aptitude ability to devote time and best efforts to the franchised business equity interest in the franchised business ability to speak and read english sufficient in our opinion to communicate with employees customers and suppliers and to satisfactorily complete our training no conflicting interests and other criteria and conditions that we apply to new franchisees store document of. potential transferee provides us with copies of all governing documents of potential transferee. certificate of incorporation or organization by laws stock certificates operating agreement membership certificates if any which must be reasonably satisfactory to us in our sole discretion. you provide to us a copy of the purchase and sale agreement if a full transfer or other documentation evidencing the transfer if an affiliate transfer and following our analysis of the terms and conditions of the proposed transfer we in our sole discretion conclude that such terms and conditions will not interfere with the financial feasibility of the future operation of the franchised business. potential transferee enters into all agreements legal instruments and other documents whether our then current agreements legal instruments and documents or a transfer of this agreement and related legal instruments and documents as determined by us individually and collectively transfer documents. the terms of the transfer documents may vary materially from the current agreements used by us including the payment of a higher royalty fee and advertising fee. not applicable. potential transferee pays to us the transfer franchise fee set forth in the transfer documents if a full transfer or potential transferee pays us the document administration fee if an affiliate transfer franchisee shall be liable to the franchisor for the transfer franchise fee or document administration fee in the event the potential transferee fails to pay such fee that is owing in full. not applicable i potential transferee successfully completes the training program required by the transfer documents if a full transfer. potential transferee agrees to complete all remodeling and improvements as required by us and must upgrade the pos system to the then current required pos system within the time period specified by us if a full transfer. you and potential transferee agree not to assert any security interest lien right or claim now or in the future in the franchised business. any security interest lien claim or right asserted with respect to any personal property at the location must not include any after acquired property and must be subject junior and subordinate to any security interest lien right or claim now or in the future asserted by us our successors or assigns and. you agree to complete and sign a letter of agency letter of authorization or equivalent and provide it to potential transferee so that potential transferee may keep the existing telephone number when the store is transferred to potential transferee. store document of. death or incapacity of individual franchisee change in entity. a death or incapacity of franchisee when franchisee is an individual i in the event of your death or incapacity your legal representative may for a period of ninety days from the date of death or incapacitation continue to operate the franchised business provided that the operation is conducted in accordance with this agreement and any other agreements with us. ii if your representative desires to continue the operation of the franchised business beyond the ninety day period then prior to the expiration of this period your legal representative must apply in writing for the right to transfer the franchised business to the person or persons whether spouse heir devisee purchaser or any other person as the legal representative may specify. the application for transfer will be treated in the same manner as any other proposed transfer under this agreement. iii if your legal representative does not comply with the provisions of the preceding paragraph or does not propose a potential transferee acceptable to us under the standards set forth in this agreement all rights licensed to you under this agreement will terminate immediately and automatically revert to us. we shall have the right and option in our sole discretion exercisable upon such termination to purchase all removable furniture fixtures signs equipment and other chattels but not leasehold improvements at a price to be agreed upon by the parties or if no agreement as to price is reached by the parties at such price as may be determined by a qualified appraiser approved by both parties such approval not to be unreasonably withheld. we shall give notice of our intent to exercise the option no later than twenty one days prior to termination. death or incapacity of any shareholder partner or member in franchisee when franchisee is a business entity i in the event of the death or incapacity of any of your shareholders partners or members the surviving shareholders partners or members may for a period of ninety days from the date of death or incapacitation continue to operate the franchised business provided that the operation is conducted in accordance with this agreement and any other agreements with us. ii if your shareholders partners or members desire to continue the operation of the franchised business beyond the ninety day period then prior to the expiration of this period your shareholders partners or members must apply jointly with all surviving shareholders partners or members in writing for the right to transfer the franchised business or the interest of the deceased or incapacitated shareholder partner or member in the franchised business to the person or business entity as the surviving shareholders partners or members may specify. the application for transfer will be treated in the same manner as any other proposed transfer under this agreement. iii if all surviving shareholders partners or members do not comply with the provisions of the preceding paragraph or do not propose a potential transferee acceptable to us under the standards set forth in this agreement all rights licensed to you under this agreement will terminate immediately and automatically revert to us. we shall have the right and option in our sole discretion exercisable upon such termination to purchase all removable store document of furniture fixtures signs equipment and other chattels but not leasehold improvements at a price to be agreed upon by the parties or if no agreement as to price is reached by the parties at such price as may be determined by a qualified appraiser approved by both parties such approval not to be unreasonably withheld. we shall give notice of our intent to exercise the option no later than twenty one days prior to termination. assignment by franchisor. you agree and affirm that we may without your prior consent sell our business our assets or our system in whole or in part to a third party may issue a public offering of our securities may engage in private placement of some or all of our securities may merge with or acquire other corporations or be acquired by another corporation and may undertake a refinancing recapitalization leveraged buyout or other economic or financial restructuring. you further agree and affirm that we have the right now and in the future without your prior consent to purchase merge acquire or affiliate with an existing competitive or non competitive franchise network chain or any other business regardless of the location of such franchise network chain or business which you acknowledge may be proximate to your franchised business and to operate franchise or license such franchise networks chains or businesses operating under the proprietary marks or any other marks following our purchase merger acquisition or affiliation. with regard to any of the above sales assignments and dispositions you expressly and specifically waive any claims demands or damages against us arising from or related to the loss of your rights to use the system as authorized under this agreement. this agreement will inure to the benefit of our successors and assigns. in conjunction with one or more of the transactions contemplated above or as otherwise determined by us we have the right to assign our rights and obligations under this agreement to any person or entity without your prior consent. upon such assignment we will be relieved of all obligations or liabilities then existing or thereafter able to be asserted under this agreement. restrictions on security interests and subfranchising. except as otherwise set forth in this section. you shall not have any rights to pledge encumber hypothecate or otherwise give any third party a security interest in this agreement in any manner whatsoever nor subfranchise or otherwise transfer or attempt to subfranchise or transfer the franchised business in whole or in part so long as it is operated as the franchised business without our express prior written permission which permission may be withheld for any reason whatsoever in our sole discretion. notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary you shall have the right to pledge your accounts receivable net of royalties and rent without our prior written consent for the sole purpose of obtaining financing for the operation of the franchised business provided you are in full compliance with this agreement and any other agreement arrangement or understanding with us. article. renewal subject to the terms and conditions described below you will have the right to renew your license to operate the franchised business for an additional term of five years. in the event you desire to renew your license you must give us notice to that effect at least one hundred twenty days prior to the expiration date of the term. in addition to giving the notice of renewal referred to above in a timely manner in order to have the right to renew the store document of license to operate the franchised business for an additional term you must also meet each of the following requirements a you must not then be in default under this agreement or any other agreement legal instrument or document with us or any of our affiliates and no event shall have occurred that with the giving of notice the passage of time or both would constitute a default under this agreement including all financial obligations to us. you must be in complete compliance with the terms of this agreement including all financial obligations to us and the then current confidential manual. you must not have received more than three notices of default or breach of this agreement during its term nor more than two notices of default or breach during the five years immediately preceding the effective date of the proposed renewal. you must have the existing right to maintain possession of the location or you must have secured and developed a suitable substitute location that meets our then current minimum site requirements such confirmation will be provided to you by us in writing. you must sign a general release provided by us. you and we must execute all agreements legal instruments and other documents individually and collectively renewal documents then used by us in the renewal of franchises and then being required of new franchise owners in connection with the system. the renewal documents will supersede this agreement but will not terminate your liability to perform any obligations which you have not yet performed under this agreement or which survive the termination of this agreement nor will the renewal documents terminate or supersede any guaranty of franchise agreement confidentiality agreement or non disclosure and non competition agreement executed pursuant to this agreement. the terms of the renewal documents may vary materially from the current agreements used by us including the payment of a higher royalty fee and advertising fee. the equipment fixtures and signage used in connection with the operation of the franchised business must either meet our then existing system specifications and standards or you must agree within a timeframe required by us to replace or refurbish such items and otherwise modify the methods of operation of the franchised business at your cost and expense in order to comply with our system specifications and standards then applicable to new franchise owners. you agree to complete all remodeling and improvements as required by us and must upgrade the pos system to the then current required pos system within the time period specified by us and i you shall have paid to us the renewal franchise fee as required under section. if you do not meet any of the requirements for renewal we will give you a notice to that effect which will specify the requirements not met. the notice will be given to you within sixty days after you deliver to us your notice of intent to renew. store document of article. default and termination. default termination. a you will be in default under this agreement i if a you become insolvent or make an assignment for the benefit of creditors you file a petition in bankruptcy or if such a petition is filed against and consented to by you and such petition is not dismissed within thirty days from the filing date of such petition you are adjudicated bankrupt a bill in equity or other proceeding for the appointment of your receiver or other custodian for your business or assets is filed and is consented to by you or is not dismissed within thirty days from the filing date of such bill or other proceeding a receiver or other custodian is appointed proceedings for composition with creditors under any state or federal law is instituted by or against you the real or personal property of the franchised business is sold at levy thereupon by any sheriff marshal or constable or sold by a secured party under any state commercial code ii if you fail to pay perform observe or comply with any of your duties and obligations under this agreement or the confidential manual including failure to provide a fully executed copy of the lease to us when due and failure to pay when due any sum due to us under this agreement including the royalty fee and advertising fee or to any advertising fund inclusive of any association or if you breach any of your obligations under any lease sublease mortgage equipment agreement promissory note vendor account conditional sales contract or other contract arising from or in connection with the franchised business to which you are a party or by which you are bound whether or not we are a party thereto iii if your lease or sublease for the location of the franchised business is either a in default and you fail to cure such default as provided in the lease or sublease is terminated for reason of default by you or the location is lost as a result of your failure to comply with the lease or sublease iv if you fail within thirty days of the entry of a final judgment against you in an amount exceeding two thousand dollars to discharge vacate or reverse the judgment or to stay its execution pending appeal or to discharge any judgment which is not vacated or reversed within thirty days after expiration of the stay of execution if we determine that a serious health or safety problem exists at the franchised business in which case we may require you to immediately correct the problem or cease operating until the problem is corrected virgin islands if you or any owner colorado owner or principal of the franchised business is convicted of a felony a crime involving moral turpitude or any other crime or offense that is reasonably likely to adversely affect the system the goodwill associated therewith or our interest therein vii except for any reason provided in section. if you abandon the franchised business which abandonment shall conclusively be deemed established if the franchised business is closed for more than three consecutive days store document of viii except for any reason provided in section. if you close or relocate the franchised business without our express advance written consent ix if you fail to maintain an independent contractor relationship with us if you either negligently or knowingly inaccurately report or fail to report any information in your franchise application xi if you or any owner colorado owner or principal of the franchised business commits an act or permits an act to be committed that violates any federal state or local law that adversely impacts the franchised business xii if you fail to participate in any rollout detailed in section. xiii if you violate any of the provisions of sections. or. including the requirement that you a sell or offer for sale only those products and services authorized by us purchase such authorized products and services only from suppliers or service providers who are approved in writing by us and utilize or switch to any of our designated approved suppliers including a supplier who has entered into a national or regional master supplier agreement with us xiv if you transfer or attempt to transfer any rights or obligations under this agreement or any other property or assets to any third party in violation of the provisions of article xv if you or any of your owners officers directors managers members or partners as applicable a become subject to. executive order or are involved in any activity that violates the. foreign corrupt practices act or any other anti corruption bribery or any other laws orders or governmental notices affecting your ability to conduct business in or with the united states as may be amended and whether in effect as of the effective date or at any time during the term are identified on the. department of the treasury office of foreign assets control specialty designated national and blocked persons list or receive any funding from any country that is subject to an embargo by the united states any foreign government or government official political party or xvi if you intentionally made any false representations and warranties under section. cross default default by you under this agreement will be deemed a default of all agreements between i you and your principals in his or her individual capacity or any other entity in which your principals are owners members managers shareholders or partners individually and collectively franchisee entity and ii us or any of our affiliates or predecessors individually and collectively franchisor entity. franchisee entity default of any other agreement legal instrument or other document between the franchisee entity and a franchisor entity will be deemed a default under this agreement. default by any guarantor of your obligations under this agreement or any agreement legal instrument or document between a franchisee entity and a franchisor entity will be deemed a default of this agreement. termination if you fail to cure any default to our satisfaction within the applicable period following notice from us if applicable or otherwise breach this agreement we store document of may in addition to all other remedies at law or in equity or as otherwise set forth in this agreement immediately terminate this agreement. this termination will be effective immediately upon the giving of notice pursuant to article. cross termination if this agreement is terminated as a result of your default of this agreement or any other agreement related to the franchised business we may at our option elect to terminate any or all other agreements legal instruments or documents between a franchisee entity and a franchisor entity. if any agreement legal instrument or document between a franchisee entity and a franchisor entity is terminated as a result of a default by the franchisee entity we may at our sole discretion elect to terminate this agreement. it is agreed that an incurable or uncured default under this agreement or any other agreement legal instrument or document between a franchisee entity and a franchisor entity will be grounds for termination of this agreement or any other agreement legal instrument or document between a franchisee entity and a franchisor entity without additional notice or opportunity to cure. opportunity to cure. a fourteen day cure period except as otherwise provided in this section. you will have the right to cure your default under this agreement within fourteen days after notice of default is given by us pursuant to article. notwithstanding the foregoing the following lesser periods will apply under the circumstances described. seven day cure period seven day cure period will apply if you fail refuse or neglect to pay when due any monies owing to us including the royalty fee and advertising fee or otherwise to any advertising fund inclusive of any association or if you fail to maintain the insurance coverage set forth in this agreement. hour cure period forty eight hour cure period will apply if you are in default of section. or if you fail to participate in any limited time product offering value offering contest promotion or charity event. you must initiate your participation in such offering contest promotion or event within forty eight hours and fully participate in such offering contest promotion or event as soon as reasonably possible in our sole discretion thereafter. hour cure period twenty four hour cure period will apply to your violation of any law regulation order or our standards relating to health sanitation or safety or except as provided in section. if you cease to operate the franchised business for a period of forty eight hours without our prior written consent. in addition a twenty four hour cure period will apply if you post on any site or direct others to any site or page post blog or other social media site where there are posted any defamatory or offensive comments about other franchisees the cold stone creamery brand other brands franchised by us or one of our affiliates your or other franchisees customers any of our your or franchisees vendors us or any of our affiliates or any of our your or franchisees competitors. immediate cure period less than hours an immediate cure period less than twenty four hours will apply if you post any content to a site in which the content includes any inappropriate public displays of affection our or others confidential information or materials violations of health or safety standards foul or obscene language or any images of or information about any persons from whom you did not obtain prior written consent store document of. no cure period no cure period will be available if you are in default of sections. a i a iii. a virgin islands a vii. a viii. a xiv. a xv or. if you intentionally underreport weekly gross sales falsify financial data fail to promptly provide upon our request financial data and records specified in this agreement or otherwise commit an act of fraud with respect to your rights or obligations under this agreement if you repeatedly fail to comply with the provisions of this agreement whether or not subsequently cured if you having twice previously cured a default of this agreement commit the default again if you made any false representations and warranties under sections. fahrenheit g meter or. north or if you engage in trademark misuse or otherwise materially misuse or make an unauthorized use of any of the components of the system or commit any other act which does or can reasonably be expected to materially impair the goodwill or reputation associated with any aspect of the system. statutory cure period if a statute in the state or municipality in which the franchised business is located requires application of that state or municipal law and that statute requires a cure period for the applicable default which is longer than any cure period specified in this article the statutory cure period will apply. our right to take over management. we have the right but not the obligation under the circumstances described below to enter the franchised business and assume the franchised business management for any period of time we feel is appropriate. if we assume the franchised business management you must pay us in addition to the royalty fee and advertising fee six percent of the gross sales plus our direct out of pocket cost and expenses for the period of time we assume the franchised business management. if we assume the franchised business management you acknowledge that our duty is limited to using our reasonable efforts and we will not be liable to you or your owners for any debts losses or obligations the franchised business incurs or to any of your creditors for any supplies or services the franchised business purchases. we may assume the franchised business management if you abandon the franchised business or if you fail to comply with any provision of this agreement and did not cure the failure within the time period we specify in our notice to you. you agree to complete and sign a letter of agency letter of authorization or equivalent and provide it to us upon our request if we assume the franchised business management so that we may keep the existing telephone facsimile alarm and credit card machine numbers as applicable in operation under our phone service provider. you also agree to keep the phone water gas electric service as applicable turned on and active for one week after we assume the franchised business management to allow us to switch the services over to us or our affiliate. our exercise of our management rights under this section. will not affect our right to terminate this agreement. remedies. a interest costs and damages if you fail to remit when due any payments required under this agreement you agree to pay in addition to the unpaid amounts all of our collection costs and expenses expert fees reasonable attorneys fees and costs and expenses including all fees costs and expenses of court including all appeals with interest on the unpaid amounts at the default rate or the highest permissible rate. if you fail to cure a default following notice within the applicable time period set forth in section. or if this agreement is terminated as a result of your default you shall pay to us all damages of any kind and nature whatsoever and all collection costs and expenses expert fees reasonable store document of attorneys fees and costs and expenses including all fees costs and expenses of court including all appeals together with interest at the default rate or the highest permissible rate. if you fail to report gross sales in accordance with sections. and. we may estimate your royalty fee and advertising fee based on prior reports and may sue for and obtain judgment for such estimates unless you prove prior to the entry of any default order or judgment that your royalty fee and advertising fee are different than the estimates. waiver of punitive damages both we and you waive to the full extent permitted by law any right they otherwise may have had to claim pursue demand or receive any exemplary or punitive damages arising out of or related in any way to this agreement and its addenda amendments appendices exhibits and attachments. if you breach any of the terms of this agreement including if you are in default of this agreement we may enforce our rights by injunction specific performance or any other remedy available under this agreement at law or in equity including termination. these remedies are cumulative and not exclusive and we may use all remedies available. in addition we may elect to terminate this agreement and all your rights under it as set forth in section. if you breach any of the terms of this agreement including if you are in default of this agreement we have the right to have a receiver appointed to take possession manage and control the assets of the franchised business collect the profits and pay the net income for the operation of the franchised business as ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction. the right to appoint a receiver will be available regardless of whether waste or danger of loss or destruction of the assets exists. effect of termination or expiration. upon termination or expiration of this agreement we can advise all suppliers of cold stone creamery proprietary food items and other supplies bearing any of the proprietary marks or service marks to cease delivering the items and products to you. upon your abandonment of the franchised business whether voluntary or involuntary any termination of this agreement whether pursuant to sections. or otherwise or upon expiration of the term you must immediately cease to hold yourself out to the public as a franchise owner of the system and you must comply with the following a immediately pay to us or any affiliate of ours all sums owing from you to us or such affiliate including the royalty fee and advertising fee for any period prior to the date of termination the applicable early termination damages as defined in section. below and all amounts owed for services supplies or other items purchased by you from us or any affiliate of ours or that were financed by us or any affiliate of ours or which we or any affiliate of ours loaned to you together with any interest or late fees accrued thereon together with all other sums due us under this agreement and all damages of any kind or nature whatsoever that may be allowed by law. immediately cease to use in any manner whatsoever including in all advertising the proprietary marks any trade secrets any confidential information any benefits of the system or any part thereof any methods associated with the system any forms recipes confidential manual slogans signs sign posts marks symbols or devices used in connection store document of with the operation of the franchised business and you must deliver or destroy all of the above mentioned materials including any materials containing or referencing any of the foregoing to us as directed by us. if we do not recover any such items such items shall be valued at their then current replacement cost for purposes of determining the damages owing by you to us for failure to return such items if we pursue a damage claim as a result thereof. immediately discontinue all advertising as a franchisee of the system and thereafter refrain from any advertising that would indicate that you are or ever were a franchisee or licensee of ours or otherwise were affiliated with us or the system. immediately take such steps as may be necessary or appropriate to i delete your listing in all telephone directories if applicable and terminate any other listings that indicate that you are or were a franchisee or licensee of ours or otherwise were affiliated with us or the system and ii transfer to our designee or us all telephone numbers used by you in connection with the franchised business. you acknowledge that between you and us we have the sole right and interest in all telephone numbers and directory listings associated with any proprietary marks and you authorize us and appoint us and any officer or agent of ours as your attorney in fact to direct the telephone company and all listings agencies to accept such direction or this agreement as conclusive evidence of our exclusive rights in such telephone numbers and directory listings and our authority to direct their transfer. immediately take such action as may be required to cancel all fictitious or assumed names amend any entity name or dissolve any entity that contains any proprietary mark in whole or in part regardless of whether the entity name was authorized by us and amend or cancel any and all equivalent registrations relating to your use of any proprietary mark. you acknowledge that between you and us we have the sole right and interest in all such fictitious or assumed names entity name and equivalent registrations and you authorize us and appoint us and any officer or agent of ours as your attorney in fact to effect the termination or cancellation of such fictitious or assumed names or equivalent registrations should you fail or refuse to do so and the appropriate federal state and local agencies may accept your direction or this agreement as conclusive evidence of our exclusive rights in such fictitious or assumed names or equivalent registrations and our authority to direct their termination or cancellation. comply with the confidentiality requirements and the covenant against competition in this agreement for the specified period. you acknowledge that you or if an entity your authorized representative has carefully reviewed the confidentiality requirements and the covenant against competition in this agreement and that you have agreed to be bound by all the requirements and covenants and. maintain at a place made known to us all books records and reports required under this agreement for a period of not less than three years after the date of termination or expiration of this agreement to allow us to make a final inspection of your books and records for the purpose of verifying that all amounts owing have been paid. store document of if you fail to do any of the foregoing we may pursue any remedy available at law or in equity against i you ii any or all guarantors of your obligations under this agreement and iii you and any or all guarantors of your obligations under this agreement. we have the right but not the obligation to purchase from you any assets or property but not leasehold improvements used in the operation of the franchised business for an amount equal to the value as defined below as of the termination date. if we are required by law regulation or court order to purchase the equipment and other tangible assets used in connection with the franchised business the purchase price will be equal to the value. for purposes of this agreement the term value means subject to applicable law an amount equal to your cost for such assets less depreciation and amortization using a two hundred percent declining balance method over a five year period. if all or any portion of your assets that are being purchased by us or our authorized representative are subject to lien we or our authorized representative may pay on your behalf the lienholder that portion of the purchase price for your assets which may be the entire purchase price that is necessary to obtain the release of those assets from the lien in lieu of paying you those funds. further we may offset any amounts payable to you pursuant to this section. or otherwise pursuant to this agreement against any unpaid amounts payable to us or our affiliates pursuant to this agreement or any agreement executed in connection with this agreement. covenant not to compete conflicting interests. a during the term and for a period of two years after your abandonment of the franchised business expiration of this agreement or termination of this agreement whether voluntary or involuntary you shall not engage in any competing business as defined in section. circa with any cold stone creamery restaurant nor shall you have any conflicting interest as defined in section. d in a competing business. the provisions of this agreement bind you in any capacity including as a franchisee sole proprietor partner limited partner member employer franchisor shareholder officer director or employee. during the term and for a period of two years after your abandonment of the franchised business expiration of this agreement or termination of this agreement whether voluntary or involuntary you shall not divert or attempt to divert any business customers or potential customers of the cold stone creamery system to any competing business by direct or indirect inducement or otherwise. in addition you shall not at any time do or perform any act directly or indirectly which harms the goodwill or reputation of us or the system. for purposes of this section. competing business means a business which is primarily engaged in the sale of ice cream along with cakes cupcakes pies smoothies and other dessert products prepared or served with ice cream or as an ingredient and all variations thereof within a geographical area consisting of during the term anywhere else and after abandonment expiration or termination of this agreement within a ten mile radius from the location or location of any cold stone creamery restaurant of ours our third party licensees or our third party franchisees. the term cold stone creamery restaurant includes not only the restaurants now in existence but also those established at a later date. the term of this covenant will be extended by any time consumed in litigation to enforce it in both trial and appellate courts. if a court of competent jurisdiction determines that the restrictions in this paragraph are excessive in time geographic scope or otherwise the store document of court may reduce the restriction to the level that provides the maximum restriction allowed by law. for purposes of this section. conflicting interest means an interest by which you or your executive officers directors and shareholders if you are a corporation or your partners if you are a partnership or your members if you are a limited liability company or your designated manager directly or indirectly have a controlling interest in lend money to consult with or otherwise assist any competing business. if any of the persons named above do not sign this agreement under the heading personal acceptance of sections. and. then you agree to obtain the execution by such person of a written agreement setting forth the foregoing in a form acceptable to us. continuing obligations. all your obligations that expressly survive the expiration or termination of this agreement including sections. and. or by the implicit nature thereof require performance after the expiration or termination of this agreement will continue in full force and effect subsequent to and notwithstanding your abandonment of the franchised business whether voluntary or involuntary the expiration of the term or termination of this agreement until they are satisfied in full or by their nature expire. the indemnities and obligations set forth in article will continue in full force and effect subsequent to and notwithstanding the expiration or termination of this agreement. remedies. you acknowledge and agree that the restrictions contained in this agreement including in this article are fair and reasonable and necessary for the protection of our legitimate business interests and you intend and agree that such restrictions be enforceable and enforced to their fullest extent. you further understand and agree that notwithstanding any other provision of this agreement your breach of your obligations under this article will cause us irreparable harm for which recovery of monetary damages alone would not be an adequate remedy. both parties shall be entitled to obtain timely injunctive relief including a temporary restraining order preliminary and permanent injunctions to protect their rights under this agreement in addition to and not exclusive of any and all other remedies available to each party. early termination damages. if you discontinue operating your franchised business before this agreement expires with or without obtaining our prior written consent or in the event of a termination of this agreement arising from or related to your default and breach of its provisions you will become obligated to pay franchisor early termination damages early termination damages. the early termination damages shall be considered damages and not a penalty are not in lieu of other damages and your payment of these damages shall not constitute a release of any other obligation owed to us. franchisor franchisee each individual signing on behalf of franchisee and each guarantor guaranteeing franchisee obligations hereunder hereby acknowledge and agree that franchisor losses due to franchisee unilateral closure of the franchised business or termination of this agreement would be highly difficult or impossible to calculate with reasonable certainty and therefore have agreed at the outset of this agreement that the early termination damages and the formula for calculating these damages constitutes a store document of reasonable good faith forecast of franchisor estimated losses and damages due to the premature closure of the franchised business or termination of this agreement. the amount of the early termination damages is calculated as follows a compute the average monthly royalty fee and advertising fee due for any consecutive twelve month period within the forty eight months immediately preceding the date we receive notification of the closure or if you failed to timely notify us of the closure then the date the franchise business closed or if the franchised business has been open for less than twelve months the average monthly royalty fee and advertising fee due since the opening of the franchised business monthly average. multiply the monthly average by the number of months remaining in the term and. divide the resulting total computed indiana above by two. for example purposes only if the average monthly royalty fee and advertising fee were collectively and there were five years months remaining in the term the early termination damages would be calculated as follows months. if you unilaterally terminate this agreement prior to the end of the term you must give us ninety days prior notice of the early termination early termination notice. within ten days after our receipt of your early termination notice we will calculate the early termination damages which will be due and payable thirty days prior to the closure of your franchised business. in the event of a termination arising from or related to your default under this agreement or that you do not i provide us with the early termination notice at least ninety days prior to the early termination of your franchised business and this agreement ii remain open for at least ninety days after providing us with the early termination notice and iii pay the early termination damages in full at least thirty days prior to closing of the franchised business the early termination damages due may in our sole discretion be increased as follows it will be calculated by multiplying the monthly average by the number of months remaining in the term and will not be divided by two. if you have not paid your royalty fee and advertising fee for any period within the forty eight months prior to notifying us of your early termination or if you have not reported your gross sales for any period within the forty eight months prior to notifying us of your intended early termination we will estimate the royalty fee and advertising fee based upon prior reports to calculate the monthly average. article. notices unless otherwise provided in this article all notices specified by this agreement or required by law must be in writing and given by personal delivery sent by carrier i fedex ups et cetera certified mail return receipt requested. all notices to us must be given at the address set forth on page of this agreement or to such other address as we may designate in writing from time to time in accordance with this article. all notices to you may be given at the address set forth on page of this agreement at the address of the franchised business at any of your franchised restaurants at your residence if an individual or at the residence of your store document of principal shareholder partner or member if a business entity. notices will be conclusively deemed to be given delivered and effective when sent pre paid and actually left in the custody of an adult agent employee or resident at a place of business or residence if given by personal delivery or if given by carrier twenty four hours after deposited with carrier or if by. certified mail three days after deposited with the. postal service. you have an obligation to promptly notify us pursuant to this article whenever your mailing address phone number or email address change. notwithstanding the foregoing we may give you written notice via email to an email address you provide us regarding all notices specified by this agreement or required by law with such email notification to be deemed received by you twenty four hours after we send it unless you otherwise earlier acknowledge receipt. article. construction and enforcement miscellaneous. independent contractors. the relationship between you and us is that of independent contractors. you are in no way to be deemed our partner joint venturer agent employee or servant. you have no authority to bind us to any contractual obligation or incur any liability for or on our behalf. you shall identify yourself as an independent owner of the franchised business in all dealings with customers lessors contractors suppliers public officials employees and others. severability and substitution of provisions. except as provided to the contrary in this agreement each article section term and provision of this agreement and any portion thereof will be considered severable and if for any reason any such portion of this agreement is held to be invalid contrary to or in conflict with any applicable present or future law or regulation or as a result of a final non appealable ruling issued by any court agency or tribunal with competent jurisdiction in a proceeding to which we are a party that regulation or ruling will not impair the operation of or have any other effect upon such other portions of this agreement as may otherwise remain valid and such other portions will continue to be given full force and effect and bind the parties to this agreement. if the severed provision is material to this agreement we shall promptly provide a substitute provision to replace the invalid severed provision consistent with then current law and the original intent of the parties. if any applicable and binding law or rule of any jurisdiction requires a greater prior notice of the termination of or refusal to renew this agreement than is required under this agreement or the taking of some other action not required under this agreement or if under any applicable law regulation or court ruling of any jurisdiction any provision of this agreement or any specification standard or operating procedure prescribed by us is invalid or unenforceable the prior notice or other action required by such law regulation or court ruling will be substituted for the comparable provisions of this agreement and we will have the right in our sole discretion to modify such invalid or unenforceable provision specification standard or operating procedure to the extent required to be valid and enforceable. such modifications to this agreement shall be effective only in such jurisdiction unless we elect to give them greater applicability and otherwise shall be enforced as originally made and entered into in all other jurisdictions. store document of. dispute resolution. a except as otherwise provided herein any dispute claim or controversy arising out of or relating to this agreement the breach hereof the rights and obligations of the parties hereto or the relationship between the parties or the entry making interpretation or performance of either party under this agreement dispute which cannot be resolved by mediation under section. d or is not subject to mediation under the terms of this agreement shall be settled by arbitration administered by the american arbitration association aaa in accordance with its commercial arbitration rules as modified below. any arbitration shall take place before a sole arbitrator in maricopa county arizona or if our headquarters are no longer located in maricopa county arizona then the arbitration shall take place in the county in which our headquarters are located at the time the arbitration is commenced. you agree that conducting the arbitration where we are located is appropriate due to the multiple locations throughout the united states where our franchisees are located. the parties agree that the arbitrator shall be an attorney licensed to practice law in the united states and must have a minimum of five years of experience in franchise law. judgment on the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court of competent jurisdiction. the arbitrator shall in the award allocate all of the costs and expenses of the arbitration including the fees of the arbitrator and the reasonable attorneys fees of the prevailing party against the party who did not prevail. to the extent permitted by applicable law no issue of fact or law shall be given preclusive or collateral estoppel effect in any other dispute arbitration proceeding or litigation except to the extent such issue may have been specifically determined in another proceeding between the parties. this agreement to arbitrate shall survive any termination or expiration of this agreement however effected. the parties agree that any arbitration shall be solely between them including any affiliates and shall not include as a party by consolidation joinder or in any other manner any other person or entity unless both parties consent in writing. both parties shall have the absolute right to refuse such consent. further the parties expressly waive any right to bring or participate in any class or other consolidated joined or multi party arbitration claim or proceeding whether or not permissible under the aaa commercial arbitration rules including any claim brought on their behalf by an association of which it he or she is a member. at the request of any party the arbitration shall be conducted in a manner that maintains the confidentiality of the proceedings. the arbitrator will issue a reasoned award with findings of fact and conclusions of law. actions to enforce an express obligation to pay monies may be brought under the expedited procedures of the aaa commercial arbitration rules. the federal arbitration act shall govern excluding all state arbitration laws. arizona law will govern all other issues. with respect to discovery the arbitrator shall require each party to make a good cause showing before any discovery exceeding that specifically authorized by the aaa commercial arbitration rules will be granted. prior to the commencement of an arbitration proceeding the parties must first submit any dispute to non binding mediation. at the request of any party the mediation will be confidential. the mediation shall be conducted in maricopa county arizona or in the county in which our headquarters are located at the time of mediation unless the parties shall mutually agree to a different location. the parties to the mediation will share equally in its costs and expenses except those costs and expenses incurred separately by each party including counsel fees and expenses. the mediation process will be deemed completed when the parties agree that it has been completed the mediator declares that any impasse exists or sixty store document of days have elapsed since the date of the initiating party notice to the other party that it is initiating the mediation process whichever occurs first. notwithstanding anything contained in this agreement to the contrary the provisions of sections. a b circa and. d do not apply to a dispute where i we bring an action for an express obligation to pay monies declaratory relief preliminary or permanent equitable relief any action at law for damage to our goodwill the confidential information the proprietary marks or for fraudulent conduct by you or ii the delay resulting from the mediation process may endanger or adversely affect the public for example unhealthy unsafe or unsanitary conditions would continue to exist. for such disputes we may bring an action in any federal or state court having jurisdiction whether for monetary damages temporary preliminary and permanent injunctive relief or specific performance in addition to and not exclusive of any other remedies available to us. you hereby consent to and waive any objection or defense and agree not to contest venue forum non conveniens or jurisdiction of such court or arbitration. disputes concerning the validity or scope of arbitration including whether the dispute is subject to arbitration are beyond the authority of the arbitrator and will be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to the federal arbitration act. et seq. as amended from time to time. either party may appeal the final award of the arbitrator if it is over one hundred thousand dollars to the appropriate. district court. the court review of the arbitrator findings of fact will be under the clearly erroneous standard and the court review of all legal rulings will be delaware novo. if it should be determined that this provision for federal court review is not enforceable then either party may appeal the arbitrator final award if it is over one hundred thousand dollars to a panel of three arbitrators chosen under aaa optional appellate arbitration rules which will employ the same standards of review stated immediately above. applicable law and forum waiver of jury statute of limitations. a except to the extent that the united states trademark act of as amended. et seq. or the franchising laws of any state that may be applicable the laws of the state of arizona govern all rights and obligations of the parties under this agreement without regard to conflict of law. the parties agree subject to the mandatory mediation and arbitration provisions of section. that any appropriate state or federal court located in maricopa county arizona has exclusive jurisdiction over any dispute arising under or in connection with this agreement and is the proper forum in which to adjudicate the case or controversy. notwithstanding the foregoing any action initiated by us may at our election be brought in any jurisdiction where you are domiciled or that has jurisdiction over you. the parties hereto irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of and venue in any such court and hereby waive any objection or defense thereto. the parties agree that all disputes submitted to the court pursuant to this section shall be tried to the court sitting without jury notwithstanding any state or federal constitutional or statutory rights or provisions. notwithstanding anything contained in this agreement to the contrary the parties agree that any claims under arising out of or related to this agreement must be brought within two years of the date on which the underlying cause of action accrued and the parties store document of hereby waive any right to bring any such action after such two year period except for the collection of any unpaid royalty fee advertising fee and any other amount due to us or our affiliate. you hereby waive the right to seek or collect punitive multiple consequential and special damages in any forum including arbitration. you hereby further waive the right if any of any association or membership group to assert claims on your behalf in any action. you hereby waive the right to any damages in connection with or resulting from the wrongful issuance of an injunction. the parties agree that the maximum damages that you may recover in connection with a wrongful termination of your franchise and this agreement will be an amount equal to the product of i the annual net profit as defined below multiplied by ii the lesser of a the number of full years existing between the date on which the franchise and this agreement were wrongfully terminated and the date on which the term would have otherwise expired or three. for purposes of this agreement the term net profit means an amount equal to the net profits of your franchised business as reflected on your tax return filed with the internal revenue service prior to such termination provided however that if such tax return reflects the operations of your franchised business for a period less than one year such net profits will be annualized based upon the net profits reflected in such tax return. no guarantee of franchisee success. you have been informed of and acknowledge the highly competitive nature of the business involved and agree that the successful operation of your franchised business will depend in part upon your best efforts capabilities management and efficient operation as well as the general economic trend and other market conditions. existence of various forms of franchise agreements. you acknowledge that our present and future franchisees operate under a number of forms of franchise agreements and consequently our obligations and rights with respect to our various franchisees may differ materially in certain instances. the existence of different forms or versions of the franchise agreement does not entitle you to benefit from any such difference nor does it operate to alter or amend the agreement of the parties set forth in this agreement. store document of. franchise owner may not withhold payments. you agree that you will not on grounds of alleged or actual nonperformance or breach by us of any of our obligations under this agreement withhold payment of any royalty fee advertising fee amounts due to us or any of our affiliates for goods or services purchased by you or any other amounts due to us or any of our affiliates. remedies are cumulative. the rights and remedies of the parties to this agreement are cumulative and not exclusive and no exercise or enforcement by either party of any right or remedy under this agreement shall preclude the exercise or enforcement by such party of any other right or remedy under this agreement or otherwise available at law or in equity to such party. interpretation. all the terms and provisions of this agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the parties. however nothing in this section. may be construed as our consent to the transfer of this agreement or any rights by you. waiver. our failure to insist upon the strict performance of any term covenant or condition contained in this agreement will not constitute or be construed as a waiver or relinquishment of our right to enforce thereafter any such term covenant or condition and such term covenant or condition will continue in full force and effect. for example franchisor acceptance of any payments made by franchisee after a breach of this agreement shall not be nor be construed as a waiver by franchisor of any breach by franchisee of any term covenant or condition of this agreement. litigation expense. if an action at law or suit in equity is brought to establish obtain or enforce any right by either of the parties to this agreement the prevailing party in the suit or action in the trial and appellate courts will be entitled to recover from the non prevailing party reasonable attorneys fees costs and expenses and disbursements incurred in such suit or action. no third party beneficiaries. this agreement is not intended to benefit any other person or entity except the named parties hereto and no other person or entity shall be entitled to any rights hereunder by virtue of so called third party beneficiary rights or otherwise. binding effect modification. this agreement is binding upon the parties to this agreement and their respective executors administrators personal representatives heirs permitted assigns and successors in interest. no amendment change or modification of this agreement shall be binding on any party unless executed in writing by you and us. store document of. entire agreement nature and scope construction. this agreement all exhibits attachments addendums and amendments constitute the entire understanding and agreement between the parties and there are no other oral or written understandings or agreements between us and you relating to the subject matter of this agreement. if required to be signed any state specific addendums are incorporated herein by reference. any representation not specifically contained in this agreement made prior to entering into this agreement does not survive subsequent to the execution of this agreement. we and you have entered into this agreement for the sole purpose of authorizing you to use the system licensed by this agreement in the operation of the franchised business during the term in which those specific items designated by us for sale and use in such locations are offered for sale and use in individual face to face transactions with patrons visiting the franchised business and equivalent telephone or mail transactions accepted as a convenience to that customer group. all consideration being furnished by us to you during the course of performance of this agreement has been determined based on the limited rights and other limitations expressed herein. no other rights have been bargained for or paid for. this provision is intended to define the nature and extent of the parties mutual contractual intent there being no mutual intent to enter into contract relations whether by agreement or by implication other than as set forth in this agreement. the parties further acknowledge that these limitations are intended to achieve the highest possible degree of certainty in the definition of the contract being formed in recognition of the fact that uncertainty creates economic risks for both parties which if not addressed as provided in this agreement would affect the economic terms of this bargain. nothing in this agreement or in any related agreement is intended to disclaim the representations we made in the disclosure document. nothing in this agreement is intended nor shall be deemed to confer any rights or remedies upon any person or legal entity not a party hereto. terminology. in addition to the terms defined elsewhere in this agreement the following terms defined below are incorporated in this agreement by reference and shall be deemed to include all persons who succeed to the interest of the original where applicable the term affiliate means any person who directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries controls is controlled by or is under common control with any person the term dollars means united states dollars and all amounts due under this agreement shall be paid in united states currency the use of the terms includes and including in any provision of this agreement followed by specific examples used shall not be construed to limit application of the provision to only the specific examples used the term person means any natural person corporation partnership trust other entity association or form of organization the term will and shall shall be synonymous and shall be mandatory and not discretionary unless otherwise specifically provided herein and store document of any references to articles or sections refer to articles and sections in this agreement unless specified otherwise. counterparts. this agreement may be executed in one or more original counterparts and all of which when taken together shall be deemed to be one original agreement. the signatures required for execution may be transmitted to the other party via facsimile or a scanned.pdf file sent via email and such signature shall be deemed a duplicate original shall be effective upon receipt by the other party may be admitted in evidence and shall fully bind the party and person making such signature. fully executed copy of this agreement shall be of the same force and effect as the original. offerings. if you are a corporation partnership or other entity and if you intend to offer securities partnership interests or other ownership interests in you through any public or private offering you shall not use any proprietary marks in such public or private offering except to reflect your franchise relationship with us nor shall you misrepresent your relationship with us by any statement or omission of an essential statement. you shall indemnify and hold us harmless from any liability in connection with such offering. nothing in the foregoing shall modify the provisions of article and no such offering shall be made without first complying with any applicable provisions of article. time. time is of the essence of each and every provision of this agreement. force majeure. neither of the parties will be liable for loss or damage or be deemed to be in breach of this agreement if the failure to perform the party obligations results from a transportation shortages inadequate supply of equipment merchandise supplies labor material or energy or the voluntary foregoing of the right to acquire or use any of the foregoing in order to accommodate or comply with the orders requests regulations recommendations or instructions of any government or any department or agency thereof or acts of god and in each case being unforeseeable forces which franchisee could not by the exercise of due diligence have avoided provided however that franchisee must i immediately upon the start of the above mentioned act provide written notice to franchisor that it expressly enacts its rights granted under this section and ii use all commercially reasonable efforts to mitigate the effect of the event of force majeure upon its performance and to fulfill its obligations under this agreement. any delay resulting from any of these causes will extend performance accordingly or excuse performance in whole or in part as may be reasonable except that no such cause will excuse payments of amounts owed at the time of such occurrence or payment of the royalty fee and all other amounts due to us and our affiliates thereafter or permit franchisee to permanently close the franchised business. store document of. plurals and captions. words in the singular number include the plural when the context requires and vice versa. the table of contents and the captions are inserted only for convenience and are not a part of this agreement or a limitation of the scope of the particular article or section to which each refers. joint and several liability. if you consist of two or more individuals whether in the form of separate individuals or a business entity controlled by the individuals then each individual will be jointly and severally liable under the provisions of this agreement. trademark notice. all trademarks referenced in this agreement are those of their respective owners. no accord or satisfaction. if you pay or we otherwise receive a lesser amount than the full amount provided for under this agreement for any payment due hereunder such payment or receipt may in our sole discretion be applied against the earliest amount due us. in addition if interest or late fees are owed we may in our sole discretion apply any amounts paid to the late fees and interest before such amounts are applied to the principal amount owed. we may accept any check or other payment in any amount without prejudice to our right to recover the entire balance of the amount due or to pursue any other right or remedy. no endorsement or statement by you on any check or payment or in any letter accompanying any check or payment or elsewhere shall constitute or be construed as an accord or satisfaction. article. acknowledgments and representations of franchisee. certain representations and warranties of franchisee. you represent and warrant that the following statements are true and complete as of the effective date a you do not seek to obtain the franchised business for speculative or investment purposes and have no present intention to sell or transfer or attempt to sell or transfer the franchised business except as previously approved by franchisor and subject and conditioned to article of this agreement. you understand and acknowledge the value to the system of uniform and ethical standards of quality appearance and service described in and required by the confidential manual and the necessity of operating the franchised business under the system standards. you represent that you have the capabilities professionally financially and otherwise to comply with our system standards. if you are a corporation limited liability company partnership or other form of entity you are duly incorporated organized or formed and are qualified to do business in the state and any other applicable jurisdiction within which the franchised business is located and you are and shall remain duly organized and in good standing during the term. store document of. you represent and warrant that i if you are an individual you are or ii if you are an entity that each of your owners shareholders partners and members are a united states citizen or a lawful resident alien of the united states. all financial and other information that you have provided to us or otherwise made available to us in connection with your application for this franchise is true complete accurate and not intentionally misleading. the execution of this agreement by you will not constitute or violate any other agreement or commitment to which you are a party. any individual executing this agreement on your behalf is duly authorized to do so and the agreement shall constitute your valid and binding obligation and if applicable all of your partners members or shareholders if you are a partnership limited liability company or corporation. you have or if you are a partnership corporation or other entity your partners or principals have carefully read this agreement and all other related documents to be executed by you concurrently or in conjunction with the execution hereof that you have obtained or had the opportunity to obtain the advice of counsel in connection with the execution and delivery of this agreement that you understand the nature of this agreement and that you intend to comply with and be bound by this agreement. i you have read and understand the information and disclosures made in the disclosure document provided to you as acknowledged in section. east you understand and acknowledge that i estimates for initial start up expenses are estimates only and there can be additional start up expenses and ii your sales may differ substantially from any sales provided in item of the disclosure document and there is no assurance that your sales will meet or exceed any sales listed in item of the disclosure document. you have had the opportunity to and have consulted or elected not to consult with your attorney accountant and business advisors before entering into this agreement. you understand and agree that while not applicable in every case our past experience indicates that owner operated restaurants generally perform better than absentee owners with hired managers. the food business is a personal business and is dependent upon your business skill and judgment. this includes your choice of employees. your skill in hiring the right people to work in your franchised business is very important in determining whether people decide to purchase menu items from your franchised business or from another restaurant in the same vicinity. you understand and agree that ownership of a franchise and the franchised business carries certain risks. these risks include the loss of your initial investment other continued financial losses such as rent payments due under lease obligations and other contractual obligations the loss of your time and energy in starting up and running your franchised business and loss of earnings and investment income from your investment in the franchised business. you understand and agree that the franchised business may make money and may lose money and are entering this business venture with this express understanding. you are not relying upon anything which is not contained within this agreement or the disclosure document in determining and deciding to become a franchisee. store document of. notwithstanding the foregoing you understand and agree that the system must not remain static if it is to meet without limitation presently unforeseen changes in technology competitive circumstances demographics populations consumer trends social trends and other market place variables and if it is to best serve the interests of us you and all other franchisees. accordingly you expressly understand and agree that we may from time to time change the components of the system including altering the products programs services methods standards forms policies and procedures of that system abandoning the system altogether in favor of another system in connection with a merger acquisition or other business combination or for other reasons adding to deleting from or modifying those products programs and services which your franchised business is authorized and required to offer modifying or substituting entirely the equipment signage trade dress dcor color schemes and uniform system standards and specifications and all other unit constructions design appearance and operation attributes which you are required to observe under this agreement and abandoning changing improving modifying or substituting the proprietary marks. you expressly agree to comply with any such modifications changes additions deletions substitutions and alterations. you shall accept use and effectuate any such changes or modifications to or substitution of the system as if they were part of the system at the time that this agreement was executed. except as provided herein we shall not be liable to you for any expenses losses or damages sustained by you as a result of any of the modifications contemplated hereby. you represent that neither you nor any of your affiliates officers directors managers members or partners as applicable or funding sources are subject to. executive order identified on the. department of the treasury office of foreign assets control specially designated national and blocked persons list or any terrorist list or other blocked persons list. in addition you represent that you have not received funding from nor are you owned controlled or acting on behalf of the government of any country that is subject to an embargo by the united states any foreign government official political party or international organization and that no foreign government or government official political party or international organization has any financial interest in the franchised business or any monies earned by the franchised business. you represent warrant and agree that you your officers directors managers members or partners as applicable will each at all times conduct themselves in an ethical manner and avoid any activity that might result in a violation of the. foreign corrupt practices act anti terrorism laws or any other applicable anti corruption or bribery laws. additional information respecting franchisee. a you have delivered to us or will deliver concurrent herewith complete and accurate copies of all of your organizational documents including all partnership agreements certificates of partnership articles of organization operating agreements articles or certificates of incorporation by laws and shareholder agreements including all amendments side letters and other items modifying such documents. reserved. store document of. acknowledgements of franchisee. a you acknowledge that you have conducted an independent investigation of the business venture contemplated by this agreement and recognize that this business venture involves substantial business risks and will largely depend upon your ability. other than the financial performance representation contained in item of the disclosure document if any we expressly disclaim making and you acknowledge that you have not received or relied on any warranty or guarantee express or implied as to the potential volume profits or success of the franchised business contemplated by this agreement. franchisee initials. you hereby certify that none of our employees no other person speaking on our behalf and no area representative if applicable have i made any oral written visual or other representation agreement commitment claim or statement that stated or suggested any level or range of actual or potential sales costs income expenses profits cash flow or otherwise other than any financial performance representation contained in item of the disclosure document or ii made any oral written visual or other representation agreement commitment claim or statement from which any level or range of actual or potential sales costs income expenses profits cash flow or otherwise might be ascertained related to a cold stone creamery franchise that is different from contrary to or not contained in the cold stone creamery disclosure document or iii made any representation agreement commitment claim or statement to you that is different from contrary to or not contained in the cold stone creamery disclosure document. you acknowledge and agree that we do not make or endorse nor do we allow any of our employees or other persons speaking on our behalf to make or endorse any additional oral written visual or other representation agreement commitment claim or statement that states or suggests any level or range of actual or potential sales costs income expenses profits cash flow or otherwise with respect to a cold stone creamery franchise other than any financial performance representation contained in item of the disclosure document. franchisee initials. you acknowledge that you have received read and understand this agreement and the related exhibits attachments and agreements and that we have afforded you sufficient time and opportunity to consult with advisors selected by you about the potential benefits and risks of entering into this agreement. franchisee initials. you understand that this agreement including any amendments and exhibits contains the entire agreement between the parties concerning the franchised business and that any prior oral or written statements that are not set out in this agreement including any amendments exhibits and attachments will not be binding. you acknowledge and agree that we do not permit any representations agreements commitments claims or statements or approve any changes in this agreement or any of the amendments exhibits and attachments to this agreement except by means of a written amendment or addendum signed by all parties to this agreement. you acknowledge that nothing in this agreement or in any related agreement is intended to disclaim the representations we made in the disclosure document. store document of franchisee initials. you acknowledge receipt of our disclosure document fourteen days prior to the execution of this agreement or your payment of any monies to us or our agent or sooner if required by applicable state law. franchisee initials. you acknowledge that other than what was previously disclosed to you in our disclosure document to which you acknowledge receipt thereof you have not received any financial statements for us or any of our parent or affiliated companies or relied on the financial condition of us or of any of our parent or affiliated companies when making the decision to purchase the franchised business. franchisee initials. you acknowledge as detailed in section. that you must at your own cost and expense use only our designated and approved design architect for the design of your franchised business. franchisee initials. you acknowledge that the following is your area representative if applicable franchisee initials i if an area representative is identified in section. h you make the following representations with respect to the area representative i you have met or spoken to only the area representative ii other than any financial performance representation contained in item of the disclosure document at no time did the area representative make any promises or statements or projections or forecasts or estimates or warranties or representations or other statement or agreement concerning profits or expenses or costs or actual or projected sales of any kind directly or by implication about cold stone creamery restaurants or about the franchised business that we desire to develop under this agreement or about obtaining the confirmed location or about any other matter other than what is contained in the cold stone creamery disclosure document or cold stone creamery restaurant brochure. iii you acknowledge that you have not received any written materials from us or the area representative except for the cold stone creamery brochure and disclosure document and store document of if there are any exceptions to sections. i i iii identify the item number and list the exception here franchisee initials. you acknowledge there have been no other inducements made with any person or entity including the identified area representative encouraging you to purchase the franchised business such as a side deal or other promise or agreement not included in the agreement. franchisee initials. you acknowledge and understand that article covers the use of the cold stone creamery trademark and prohibition on registration of our proprietary marks. you acknowledge the ownership of the proprietary marks by us and you agree that during the term and after its expiration or termination you will not directly or indirectly apply to register register or otherwise seek to use or control or in any way use cold stone creamery or any other of our proprietary marks or any confusingly similar form or variation in any place or jurisdiction either within or outside the united states nor will you assist any others to do so. you further agree that your corporate partnership or other entity name will not include any of the proprietary marks or phrases similar thereto as a part thereof. furthermore you acknowledge and understand that you are prohibited from filing applications for the registration of our trade names used in connection with your franchised business. franchisee initials. you acknowledge and understand that in the event you have registered a trade name or entity name containing our trademarks you will be required to immediately discontinue all further use of the trademark all proprietary marks and any other marks or names confusingly similar thereto in your entity name. furthermore you will take such action as may be required to amend your entity name and affirmatively cancel or terminate and dissolve all fictitious or assumed names or other registrations that contain our proprietary marks. in the event you do not comply and execute any and all instruments and documents necessary to protect and maintain our interests in the proprietary marks we will then have power of attorney to execute any documents necessary to protect and maintain our interests in the proprietary marks. franchisee initials article. submission of agreement the submission of this agreement to you does not constitute an offer and this agreement shall become effective only upon the execution thereof by the parties. this agreement shall not be binding on us unless and until it shall have been accepted and signed by franchisor. signature page follows store document of in witness whereof each party hereto by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind his or her respective party without further consent or approval of any kind has duly executed and delivered this agreement as of the effective date. franchisee a by name title by name title franchisor kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company by name title store document of personal acceptance of sections. and. each of the undersigned individually and personally accepts and agrees to be bound by the provisions of sections. and. of the foregoing franchise agreement. an individual signature date an individual signature date an individual signature date an individual signature date exhibit to the franchise disclosure document franchise agreement renewal store document ii of iii cold stone creamery franchise agreement renewal between kahala franchising. and a store document iii of iii table of contents article. grant of franchise term system standards. article. selection of location construction and relocation. article. operations. article. training assistance and start up materials. article. fees and deposits. article. proprietary marks. article. trade secrets and proprietary information. article. relationship of the parties and indemnification. article. operating standards and duties of franchise owner. article. advertising and promotion. article. accounting procedures and reports. article. transfer. article. successor term. article. default and termination. article. notices. article. construction and enforcement miscellaneous. article. acknowledgments and representations of franchisee. article. submission of agreement. personal acceptance of sections. and. cold stone creamery franchise agreement agreement parties kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company attn legal department. via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona franchisor a telephone number individually and collectively franchisee restaurant number effective date effective date traditional restaurant yes or no restaurant description if non traditional traditional restaurant is a restaurant that is easily accessible by the general public such as a free standing building inline retail shop shopping mall and street front location. traditional cold stone creamery restaurant normally offers a full menu. non traditional restaurant is a cold stone creamery restaurant that is located in a non traditional marketplace as determined by us in our sole discretion such as an airport amusement park sports or entertainment venue train station travel plaza toll roads cafeteria retail store convenience store military base hospital office building movie theater hotel casino kiosk cart or high school or college campus. non traditional restaurant may also be a cold stone creamery restaurant that is colorado branded into another brand restaurant at franchisor sole discretion. non traditional cold stone creamery restaurant normally offers a limited version of the full cold stone creamery menu. to simplify the language in this agreement the terms we us our and the like may be used to refer to the franchisor and the terms you your and the like may be used to refer to the franchisee. the term you as used herein is applicable to one or more persons a corporation partnership trust other entity association or form of organization as the case may be and the singular usage includes the plural masculine neuter feminine and possessive usages. franchisor and franchisee may individually be referred to as a party and collectively referred to as the parties. store document of recitals this agreement is entered into with reference to the following facts and circumstances. we have over a period of time and at considerable expense developed and established a uniform and unique method of operation customer service advertising publicity processes recipes techniques and technical knowledge in connection with the restaurant business specializing in super premium ice cream cakes pies smoothies shakespeare specialty beverages other dessert with frozen confections and other related beverage and food items. these restaurants do business under the trade name cold stone creamery. these cold stone creamery recipes techniques processes and methods constitute our trade secrets. all of our knowledge experience trade secrets processes methods specifications techniques proprietary marks as defined in recital. system standards as defined in section. and information are referred to in this agreement as the system. the system may be changed supplemented improved and further developed by us from time to time. we have owned and issued franchises to others for the operation of franchised restaurants in the united states and in other countries. we have registered and applied for proprietary marks with the united states patent and trademark office and with offices in other countries serving similar functions. these proprietary interests trademarks service marks logos insignias trade names and trade dress are referred to in this agreement as the proprietary marks. we are engaged in the business of licensing the right to use the proprietary marks in connection with the operation and promotion of the system. you understand and recognize that our trade secrets proprietary marks developments and other properties as recited above are of considerable value and it is of importance to us and all of our franchisees to maintain the development of the system in a uniform and distinctive manner allowing you and our other franchisees to enjoy a public image and reputation greater than most single franchisees could establish. you desire to make use of the cold stone creamery trademark and to enjoy the benefits of that mark the other proprietary marks and the system and to establish a cold stone creamery franchise to be operated in accordance with system standards set forth from time to time by us. system standards are set forth in without limitation the confidential ops package which consists of the operations manual operations manual ops toolkit and related printed and electronic documents both now existing and hereinafter developed individually and collectively confidential manual. we are willing to grant you the right to do so under the terms conditions and provisions set forth in this agreement which includes any and all appendices addenda amendments attachments and exhibits. you recognize the necessity and desirability of protecting our reputation goodwill trade secrets and other confidential business information and that disclosure of trade secrets and confidential business information including specifics of the system to any third party will cause irreparable damage and harm to us. agreement the parties agree as follows store document of article. grant of franchise term system standards. franchise grant. we hereby grant to you a cold stone creamery franchise that includes the right to use the system franchised business as provided in this agreement at the following location arena mall facility or center name if applicable street address city state zip code location. location of the franchised business no exclusive territory or other rights. you must operate the franchised business only from the location including any catering services of cold stone creamery menu items you provide. you acknowledge that the cold stone creamery franchise granted under this agreement is non exclusive that we are not granting you any territorial protection or any other exclusive rights and that we directly or through one or more affiliates reserve the right in our sole discretion and without compensating you or seeking your prior approval i to establish and grant to other franchisees or licensees the right to establish a cold stone creamery restaurant or any other business using the proprietary marks the cold stone creamery system or any variation thereof in any location other than the approved location including locations in the immediate vicinity of your location on any terms and conditions that we deem appropriate ii to establish and grant to other franchisees or licensees the right to establish any restaurant concept other than cold stone creamery in any location on any terms and conditions that we deem appropriate including locations in the immediate vicinity of the location iii to sell products identified by the proprietary marks or other trademarks service marks or commercial symbols in any location through any distribution channels including grocery stores convenience stores supermarkets club stores vending machines delivery services and restaurants other than cold stone creamery restaurants and iv to take any other action that we are not expressly prohibited from taking under this agreement. we hereby grant to you during the term of this agreement a non exclusive right and license to operate a single restaurant at the location only according to the system standards and subject to the terms conditions and restrictions contained in this agreement. this agreement is limited to the operation of one traditional restaurant unless otherwise amended and does not grant you the right to buy own or operate additional restaurants. except as expressly limited in this agreement we for ourselves and our affiliates and designees retain all rights with respect to all proprietary marks and the sale of cold stone creamery products anywhere in the world with no compensation or liability to you including the right to a establish and operate or license to any other person or entity the right to establish and operate cold stone creamery restaurants owned or licensed by us at any location store document of. develop market own operate and participate in any other business under the proprietary marks or any other trademarks including trademarks identified in the franchise disclosure document disclosure document and other trademarks we or our affiliates own or have the right to license. develop lease and license the use of at any location trademarks other than the proprietary marks in connection with the operation of a system that offers products or services that are the same as or similar to those offered by us under this agreement on any terms or conditions that we deem advisable in our sole discretion. merge with acquire or be acquired by any other business including a business that competes with your franchised business or acquire and convert any retail stores including retail stores operated by competitors or otherwise operated independently or as part of or in association with any other system or chain whether franchised or corporate owned. distribute sell and license other persons or entities to distribute and sell products through all other channels of distribution including catalog sales telemarketing grocery stores warehouses big box shops specialty shops limited access highway food facilities vending machines and similar automated dispensing systems mobile units off site sales accounts electronic mail internet sales and movie theaters individually and collectively other channels and. implement multi area marketing programs that may allow us or others to solicit or sell to customers anywhere. we also reserve the right to issue mandatory policies to coordinate such multi area marketing programs. term of agreement. a the term for this agreement is for a single renewal term that will commence on the effective date and will expire on the five year anniversary of the effective date unless terminated earlier in accordance with article or any other provisions of this agreement or transferred in accordance with article term. system standards. you shall operate the restaurant in accordance with our standards including the following a restaurant design maintenance health and safety and remodeling. types models brands and suppliers of required fixtures furnishings equipment signs materials and supplies. recipes and ingredients menu items and menu design. cooperation with and participation in sales marketing advertising and promotional programs including discount coupons discount gift cards special menu promotions and entering into product and service agreements directly with third party vendors and service providers as required by us and materials and media used in those programs including discontinued use and removal of promotional materials as directed by us store document of. use and display of the proprietary marks. restaurant operations including matters related to the management of the restaurant training of your employees consistent with the system standards and commercial impression of the franchised business to the public. cooperation with and participation consistent with our responses and resolutions in response to customer feedback. cooperation with and participation in i market research and testing and ii product and service development programs i acceptance of our stored value gift cards including gift cards sold at a discount loyalty cards frequency cards gift certificates vouchers and any other similar electronic card and payment programs individually and collectively gift loyalty card credit and debit cards other payment systems check verification services and use of point of sale computer systems you agree to enter into a separate participation agreement with the approved vendor for data processing services. bookkeeping accounting data processing and record keeping systems computer hardware and software connections to the internet or to proprietary networks forms methods formats content and frequency of reports to us of gross sales as defined in article financial performance and condition and providing tax returns and other operating and financial information to us and. conduct and maintain the franchised business and location so as not to distract from or interfere with the integrity of the system individually and collectively system standards. we may in whole or in part change improve update and further develop the system standards from time to time during the term. you shall comply with the updated system standards as directed by us. the operation and maintenance of your restaurant according to the system standards are essential to the well being and vitality of the system and to preserve the goodwill of the proprietary marks for us and for all other franchisees operating under the system. it is critical to the cold stone creamery system for all restaurants operating under the cold stone creamery system to present a uniform and professional image to cold stone creamery customers regardless of which location the customer visits. any information regarding the operation of the restaurant will be considered a mandatory system standard unless it is clear from the express language of our communication that the information is merely optional or is intended by us as a suggestion rather than a requirement. you agree that system standards constitute binding provisions of this agreement as if they were an integral part of this agreement. article. selection of location construction and relocation. location selection procedures. you are ultimately responsible for the selection of the location. we will not have any liability to you with respect to your selection of the location any assistance we provide you in store document of making your selection our recommendation of any location or a third party to assist you in selecting a location or our allowing you to move forward on any location. you agree that your selection of the location will be based on your own independent investigation of the suitability of the location. lease and purchase approval. if you intend to lease the location for your franchised business the lease will be subject to our prior limited review and acknowledgment so that we can confirm that certain lease terms are incorporated into the lease. you must provide us at least thirty days prior to executing the lease a copy of the lease and details relating to square footage rent per square foot the term of the lease and either confirmation that such other terms as we reasonably require are incorporated into the lease or that you and the landlord agree to incorporate the lease addendum to lease agreement as an exhibit to the lease. you or your attorney shall be responsible for negotiating the terms of the lease which shall be subject to our final limited review and acknowledgment. if you do not submit all of the required documents to us we will not allow you to move forward with your lease. we have no liability to you regarding the terms or negotiations of the lease. if prior to executing the lease you or your attorney request a full review of your lease including any and all exhibits attached thereto and we or our designated affiliate review your entire lease and exhibits and provide to you or your attorney its review of the entire lease and suggested changes to the lease lease review you must pay a lease review fee as defined in section. to compensate for time and effort in reviewing the lease. the lease review is optional and only completed by us or our designated affiliate at your or your attorney request. the lease review fee is due only in the event that you or your attorney request us or our affiliate to complete a lease review. each lease must contain the required lease terms set forth in the lease addendum to lease agreement and must specifically state that we are a third party beneficiary of the lease. if we cure any default by you under the lease any amounts that we pay to cure the default will be payable by you to us on demand together with interest thereon at the lesser rate of one and one half percent or the maximum rate that does not violate applicable state usury laws default rate per month from the date we make such payment. you acknowledge and agree that on the earlier of thirty days after i you receive a fully executed copy of your lease for the location of your franchised business or ii you open your franchised business to the public you must provide a fully executed copy of your lease for the location to us. failure to timely provide us with a fully executed copy of the lease will result in a default under this agreement. if you intend to purchase the location for your franchised business the terms of such purchase shall be subject to our prior approval and you must provide us at least thirty days prior to executing the purchase agreement a copy of the purchase agreement and details relating to square footage price per square foot and such other terms as we reasonably require. you acknowledge and understand that our confirmation that you may move forward with any specific location lease or purchase agreement does not in any way guarantee or ensure the success or profitability of the franchised business or the conformity of the location lease or purchase agreement to applicable laws and such confirmations are only for our own benefit. store document of. construction. a you must at your sole cost and expense construct furnish make improvements to and equipment if necessary the franchised business at the location selected by you and meeting our minimum site requirements in accordance with plans and specifications approved by us or our third party approved architect if applicable. our approval of plans is solely for complying with our system standards and not for determining compliance with codes ordinances and other legal requirements including the americans with disabilities act ada or any requirements under the lease for your location. you are solely responsible for ensuring that your location conforms to all codes and ordinances including the ada and all lease specific requirements. you must at your sole cost and expense use our designated and approved third party design architect design architect to prepare the initial design drawings for any construction alterations or improvements as applicable for your franchised business. the design architect must provide us with one set of the design drawings including landscaping and parking spaces if applicable which are the detailed plans and specifications plans for your franchised business. we will provide you with a copy of the plans upon our approval of the plans. you must also at your sole cost and expense retain a licensed architect of record to prepare the permitted construction set of drawings for any construction alterations or improvements. the permitted construction set of drawings must be submitted to us for our files prior to the start of construction alterations or improvements. in addition you must obtain the appropriate construction documents and all mechanical plumbing electrical and architectural plans must be sealed and stamped as we may require even if local laws in the jurisdiction where your restaurant is located do not require same. any material modifications to the approved plans must be submitted to us for approval and you will not undertake any construction alterations or improvements until such modifications have been approved by us. approval of such modifications does not constitute any representation by us of compliance with applicable zoning laws building codes or other laws. you will be solely responsible for the cost and expense of obtaining all necessary governmental construction permits and licenses and you must at your sole cost and expense comply with all laws zoning ordinances rules and regulations of any governmental agencies that may govern any construction alterations or improvements of the franchised business in accordance with the approved plans. we will have the right but are not required to meet with the design architect and to inspect any construction alterations or improvements during its course to ensure that the provisions of this section. are being observed and you agree to allow our authorized representatives at any and all times while construction alterations or improvements are in progress to meet with the licensed architect and general contractor and enter onto the location for this purpose. if we determine in good faith that the provisions of this section. are not being observed you will at your sole cost and expense immediately take all necessary corrective action. you must at your sole cost and expense use a general contractor that is licensed and if applicable registered in the state and local jurisdiction where your restaurant is located for any and all construction alterations and improvements. the general contractor must have prior experience in the construction alterations and improvement of quick service restaurants. store document of. you acknowledge that the design and appearance of the cold stone creamery restaurant is part of the system and that uniformity is essential to the system. therefore you agree that after the restaurant has been constructed altered or improved you will not make any material changes to the building plan or design or its appearance without our prior written consent and you will at your sole cost and expense maintain the interior and exterior dcor of the restaurant in a first class condition and in such manner as we may reasonably prescribe from time to time. in addition to any remodeling required by us upon the transfer of the franchised business and upon the granting of a successor term to operate the franchised business as set forth in articles and respectively you will upon thirty days prior notice from us and at your sole cost and expense remodel and make all alterations and improvements in and to your franchised business as reasonably determined by us to reflect the then current cold stone creamery system specifications standards format image and appearance. you must submit to us a certificate of occupancy for your franchised business at any time upon our request. signage. you will acquire repair and replace as necessary and maintain in a first class condition throughout the term signs for advertising and identifying the franchised business as a cold stone creamery restaurant. all signs must be in accordance with the system standards specifications and any local governing body i city or county governments as well as any other applicable laws including the americans with disabilities act ada and exterior signage must be the maximum size allowed by the landlord and local governing body. you acknowledge that quality control is essential to protect and promote our proprietary marks standards and uniform image and you shall acquire all signs only from approved suppliers. in addition you shall prominently display on all communications forms advertising business stationery and business cards and in a sign easily visible to consumers at the franchised business the following words independently owned and operated. relocation. a if you desire to relocate the franchised business you may request our consent upon the following conditions i not less than sixty days prior to the desired date of relocation unless prior notice is impractical because of a required relocation due to a third party or our request in which event notice shall be made as soon as possible you must make a written request for consent to relocate describing the reasons for the relocation and providing details respecting any proposed new location. ii within twenty one days after receiving your written request we shall advise you in writing if the proposed new location meets our minimum real estate site requirements as provided in section. and if you have our authorization to proceed with the relocation. in the event of our denial to proceed with the relocation you may request an alternative proposed new location pursuant to the provisions of this section. iii the term will not be extended in connection with the requested relocation. store document of. at the time you request to relocate the franchised business you must also meet each of the following requirements i you must not be in default under this agreement or any other agreement or note then in effect between us or you and any affiliate of ours and no event shall have occurred that with the giving of notice the passage of time or both would constitute a default under this agreement ii you must neither have received more than three notices of default or breach during the term nor more than two notices of default or breach during the five years immediately preceding the effective date of the proposed relocation iii the equipment fixtures and signage used in connection with the operation of the franchised business must either meet our then existing system specifications and system standards or you must agree within a timeframe required by us to replace or refurbish such items and otherwise modify the methods of operation of the franchised business at your cost and expense in order to comply with our system specifications and system standards then applicable to new franchise owners and iv you shall have paid to us a relocation fee as defined in section. if we approve the relocation of your franchised business i you and we must execute an amendment to this agreement indicating the address for your relocated franchised business and ii you must open your franchised business at the new location within thirty days after you close your franchised business at the current location. provided that you comply with all of the terms and conditions set forth in this agreement including this section. during the period of time between the closure of your franchised business at the current location and the opening of the franchised business at the approved relocation address you will not owe the royalty fee as defined in section. restricted use of restaurant location. you may not wholly or partially sublet the location without our prior written consent. the location may be used only for the operation of a cold stone creamery restaurant in compliance with this agreement and the system standards. you shall not conduct other businesses or activities at the location without our prior written consent. not applicable. article. operations. not applicable. supplies and promotional materials rollouts. you agree to sell only those menu items products and services authorized under the terms of this agreement and as specified in the confidential manual and you shall use only supplies and ingredients in making those menu items that are in compliance with the standards as set forth in the confidential manual or other documents provided by or approved by us as they presently exist or may exist in the future. you shall purchase all such services supplies and ingredients store document of only from approved vendors and utilize approved distributor as specified in the documents provided by or approved by us as they presently exist or may exist in the future. you must purchase promotional materials containing the proprietary marks including stationery business cards promotional and advertising materials and similar items from suppliers approved by us except that we must first approve all such promotional and advertising materials before you use them and all such printed materials containing any of the proprietary marks shall be accompanied by the words independently owned and operated. additionally during the term you agree to participate in any rollout of new products and suppliers as defined in section. fixtures furnishings and equipment. unless otherwise approved by us in writing you will acquire repair and replace as necessary and maintain in a first class condition throughout the term fixtures furnishings and equipment to be used in the operation of your franchised business that is in accordance with the system standards specifications set forth by us in the confidential manual or other documents provided by or approved by us as they presently exist or may exist in the future and with applicable laws including without limitation including the americans with disabilities act ada and procure the fixtures furnishings and equipment from suppliers or vendors previously approved in writing by us. online presence. you may not maintain a website software application an appendix application social media account including an account group or page on facebook flickr foursquare google instagram linkedin pinterest snapchat tumblr twitter youtube vine vkontakte or weibo or otherwise maintain a presence or advertise on the internet or any other public computer network individually and collectively site in connection with the franchised business without our prior written approval which we may withhold in our sole discretion. if we grant you written approval you agree to submit to us for approval before use true and correct printouts of all site pages you propose to use in connection with the franchised business. you understand and agree that our right of approval of all such site pages is necessitated by the fact that such site pages will include and be inextricably linked with our proprietary marks. if we approve your use of a site you may only use site pages that we have approved. your site must conform to all online presence requirements policies and procedures per our system standards. you agree to provide all information regarding your online presence that we require. if we grant approval for a site you may not use any of the proprietary marks on the site except as we expressly permit. you may not post any of our proprietary confidential or copyrighted material or information on the site without our prior written permission. if you wish to modify your approved site all proposed modifications must also receive our prior written approval. you explicitly understand that you may not post on any site whether yours or someone else any material in which a third party has any direct or indirect ownership interest including video clips photographs sound bites copyrighted text trademarks or service marks or any other text or image which any third party may claim intellectual property or other rights indiana if we grant approval you agree to list on the site any website and social media account maintained by us and any other information we require in the manner we dictate. you agree to obtain our prior written approval for any internet domain name home page address and uniform resource locator. the requirement for our prior approval set forth in this section. will apply to all activities on the internet or other communications network to be conducted by you except that you may maintain one or more mail addresses and may conduct individual mail store document of communications without our prior written approval. you agree to obtain our prior approval as provided above if you propose to send advertising to multiple addressees via mail or text messages. you may not use a site to represent that the site is an official account application page or group of or video produced by us or you are the owner of the cold stone creamery brand. on any site you use in connection with the franchised business you must affirmatively state a that you are a franchisee and the opinion and content being expressed are your own and not that of the cold stone creamery brand and the location of your franchised business. continuing working capital requirement. you must have fifteen thousand dollars in working capital at the time you open your franchised business. article. training assistance and start up materials. training program. the training program is made up of the in store training which is approximately eighty hours and new owner training which is approximately forty hours collectively training program. you will be solely responsible for all transportation costs food lodging and other personal expenses incurred by you and your employees in connection with the training program. the new owner training will be conducted either online or in person at our sole discretion. if the new owner training is conducted in person it will be at the franchisor training and education center in scottsdale arizona or at such other location as we may designate at our sole discretion and the in store training will be conducted at a training store in arizona or such other location as we may designate at our sole discretion. you acknowledge that adequate knowledge regarding the operation of the franchised business is essential to the growth of your franchise and to the promotion of the system. notwithstanding the foregoing franchisor has the right to require franchisee and or its manager to attend additional in store training as defined below as provided for in this section. in the event franchisee is not operating the franchised business pursuant to franchisor systems standards. notwithstanding the foregoing because franchisee has prior experience in the food service industry and in particular with the operation of a cold stone creamery restaurant franchisor hereby waives the requirement for franchisee to attend and successfully complete the training program at the time franchisee executes this agreement. franchisor and franchisee hereby agree that franchisor has no obligation to provide the training program to franchisee or any persons who have an ownership interest in the franchised business prior to or in connection with franchisee continuing operations of the franchised business. franchisee understands and agrees that the foregoing waiver is not a permanent waiver by franchisor and franchisor does not waive and hereby reserves the right to require franchisee to later attend and successfully complete any training as may be prescribed by franchisor at any time during the term. furthermore franchisor has the right to require franchisee and or its manager to attend additional training and pay the additional training fee as defined below as provided for in this section. and section. in the event franchisee is not operating the franchised business pursuant to franchisor systems standards. store document of. employee training. you acknowledge that the employees of your cold stone creamery franchised business are an integral and important part of the franchised business as they will have substantial contact with customers. you alone are responsible and acknowledge that we have no direct or indirect control and no right or authority for the hiring firing training supervising setting the terms and conditions of employment including employee tasks and work schedules compensation of your employees or maintaining employment records for the safety of your employees and for your employees compliance with the system standards. the system standards are in place to protect our interests in the system and not for exercising any control over you your employees or your franchised business. you must ensure that your employees who have direct interaction with the public are able to speak and read english and any other language that may be required to adequately meet the public needs in your franchised business. additional programs continuing assistance. we may in the future request that you participate in refresher or additional training programs. we may also hold an annual conference to introduce new products discuss sales and marketing techniques personnel training advertising programs merchandising procedures and other subjects. you may be charged a nominal registration fee for these programs and you will be solely responsible for the cost of transportation food lodging and other expenses incurred by you at any such program. attendance at these additional training programs and conferences is mandatory. they will be held in the metropolitan phoenix arizona area or at other locations in the united states chosen by us at our sole discretion. we shall provide such periodic evaluations or inspections as we deem appropriate utilizing our field representatives who may visit the franchised business from time to time. the frequency and duration of such visits to a franchised business by our representatives shall be in our sole discretion. any such evaluation or inspection is not intended to exercise any control over your employees or the daily operation of your franchised business. in addition we will be available on an ongoing basis at our offices for consultation and guidance with respect to the operation and management of the franchised business. in addition to the confidential manual we may but are not required to from time to time provide you with additional materials relating to the franchised business. area representatives. we may retain the services of an independent third party area representative area representative to represent us in the area in which the restaurant is located and perform some or all of the services we provide under this agreement. the services the area representative may perform could include i assistance in location selection and evaluating and confirming that the location meets our minimum site requirements ii advice and guidance regarding lease negotiations iii assistance in opening new cold stone creamery locations iv assistance with training on the approved pos system as defined in section. a assistance with marketing advice virgin islands periodic quality service cleanliness and experience qsce evaluations vii assistance with collection of the various sums due to us from cold stone creamery franchisees and viii coordination with other cold stone creamery franchisees in your area and general supervision and monitoring of your franchised business on our behalf. you agree in advance to our delegation to an area representative of some or all store document of of our obligations and assignment to an area representative of some or all of our rights under this agreement. you agree that we may require you to submit to an area representative any reports you are required to submit to us. upon our request you will provide the area representative with access inspection and audit rights to the same extent we have those rights under this agreement. you are not a third party beneficiary of any agreement between us and any area representative. if we have designated an area representative for your restaurant as of the effective date the name and contact information of the area representative is shown in section. h we reserve the right in our sole discretion to remove any area representative in your area at any time and to appoint any other area representative for your area. we have no obligation to appoint an area representative in the area in which your restaurant is located and we have no obligation to appoint a new area representative after we have removed an area representative. you acknowledge that area representatives and their owners and employees may not contractually bind us without our express written authorization. you further acknowledge no area representative has the authority to i enter into agreements or execute any agreements on our behalf or ii bind us in any way without our prior written consent. unless expressly authorized and agreed to by us in writing we disavow any agreements whether verbal or written entered into by an area representative that in any way attempts to bind us. in any litigation or arbitration proceeding you agree to waive any claim or defense that an area representative is our express or implied agent and such an assertion by you constitutes a material default under this agreement. confidential manual. to protect the reputation and goodwill of the system and to maintain the uniform standards of operation under the proprietary marks you must conduct your business in accordance with our confidential manual. the confidential manual is confidential and remains our property. the operations manual is available to franchisee via the franchisee portal at https portal.kahalamgmt.com. in the event franchisee desires to receive a hard copy of the operations manual then franchisee shall submit such request in writing to training kahalamgmt.com. upon such request a hard copy of the operations manual will be mailed to franchisee via regular mail within approximately forty five days thereafter. so that you may benefit from new knowledge gained by us as to improved techniques in the operation of the franchised business we may from time to time revise amend restate or supplement the content of the confidential manual or other documents provided by or approved by us as they presently exist or may exist in the future. you will at all times ensure that your copy of the confidential manual is kept current and up to date. in the event of a dispute regarding any of the content of the confidential manual the master copies maintained by us at our corporate office will control. computer systems debit and credit card processing. a prior to the opening of your restaurant you will be required to acquire to maintain and to exclusively use an approved cash register computer system pos system during the operation of the franchised business. you and your employees must complete training for the pos system as we require and you will be required to use the pos system to https nam.safelinks.protection.outlook.com ?url https a folio fportal.kahalamgmt.com folio data county clltuller kahalamgmt.com county county confer dd d county folio folio county county folio ea armed forces europe b east edward county ef county county county cunknown ctwfpbgzsb d eyjwijoimc wljawmdailcjqijoiv lumziilcjbtii ik hawwilcjxvci minnesota d county sdata ea bpqj pb yyxodzjw east io zxatjk isbywoc wro d reserved mailto training kahalamgmt.com. store document of produce sales reports keep inventory control and post sales tax refunds credits and allowances and submit that information to us immediately upon our request. you are required to obtain high speed always on internet connection service for your pos system. if high speed always on internet is not available in your area dialect up internet access may be used until high speed always on service becomes available in your area. the pos system must be configured so that we will have remote access to the information and data stored in the pos system which may include inventory information. this access will allow us to exchange collect data and other information on such bases as we will communicate to you from time to time. you will be required to maintain the pos system in good working order at all times and to upgrade or update the pos system during the term as we may require from time to time. it will be your responsibility to enter into contracts for the maintenance upgrades and updates to the pos system with an approved supplier of such services identified by us on the list of approved vendors and distributors or other notification to you from us advising of suppliers for your market area. you shall also be required to own a personal computer or similar device with access to the internet that allows you to report your gross sales as defined in section. online send and receive mails with us and receive online orders. all cold stone creamery franchisees are required to participate in online ordering and delivery programs which includes entering into one or more participation agreement with one of our affiliates and or other approved vendor for remote online order processing services and delivery services under the terms conditions and fees established by such vendor for the purpose of developing implementing using maintaining supporting updating and or upgrading technologies in connection with the franchise system including web based and or mobile applications and websites. we may charge collect for a third party or require you to remit to a third party amounts used to develop and use technologies within the franchise system. this may include amounts paid to third party delivery service platforms and aggregators. to provide for the inevitable but unpredictable nature to changes to technological needs and opportunities you agree and acknowledge that we shall have the right to establish in writing new standards and fees for developing implementing using maintaining supporting updating and or upgrading technologies in connection with the franchised system. there is no contractual limitation on the frequency and cost of this obligation. we may require you to upgrade the hardware and software including but not limited to your operating system as reasonably necessary to provide reports and information required by us. you are required to accept debit and credit cards and gift loyalty cards from consumers at the franchised business. you are required to acquire as necessary and to maintain an approved debit credit and gift loyalty card processing system to use during the operation of the franchised business. additionally you must utilize our approved third party gift loyalty payment card processor for processing all such gift loyalty card transactions including entering into a gift card participation agreement with one of our affiliates or its successors or assigns or other approved vendor for the gift loyalty card processing services. the payment card industry pci requires all companies that process store or transmit credit card information to protect the cardholders information by complying with the pci data security standard pci dss. therefore as a franchisee who accepts credit cards you are required to be pci compliant by following and adhering to pci dss which includes ensuring that your pos system back office computer if supplied and any other device that is plugged into the network is only used for business purposes. you are also required to complete an annual questionnaire and quarterly network pci scans and install a network firewall appliance for logging tracking reporting and security assessment. you are also required to validate with franchisor that your store is pci compliant and franchisor may in its sole discretion require you to install a particular type of firewall hardware and or software. to show such validation you must send us your passing certificate showing your store is pci compliant. you are also required to verify store document of that you have a pci compliant firewall appliance installed at your location if you process credit cards via high speed internet connectivity. we require your franchised business pos system including terminals computers and software to be in compliance with the pci dss at all times. the pci dss is often updated and you are required to obtain and comply with all updated standards. you must also be pci compliant in order to obtain cyber liability data breach insurance coverage. article. fees and deposits you agree to pay each of the following amounts to us via a lump sum with each and every amount being non refundable because of our investment in time and money in addition to any other benefits conferred upon you including processing your application reviewing your documents and providing you with relevant information unless otherwise expressly specified below in accordance with the provisions set forth in this article. notwithstanding your designation to the contrary we have the sole discretion to apply any of your payments in part or in whole to any of your indebtedness to us. not applicable. royalty fee and surcharge. for the period of time commencing on the later of the effective date or the date the franchised business opens to the public and for the duration of the term you must pay to us a weekly royalty fee equal to six percent of total gross sales as defined below royalty fee. if we or the landlord of the location require you to remodel your franchised business in such a way that your franchised business including catering stops offering items to the public or if there is a disaster at your franchised business such as a fire flood or damage caused by an act of god that requires you to temporarily close your franchised business you are not required to pay the royalty fee during the period of time of such temporary closure provided you provide us or our authorized representative with notice of such temporary closure as soon as reasonably possible but in no event more than twenty four hours after such closure begins. notwithstanding the above all amounts owed to us under this agreement prior to the temporary closure shall still be fully due and payable. the temporary closure of your franchised business shall not exceed ninety days but may be extended on a case by case basis at our sole discretion and with our prior written approval. in our sole discretion we may charge in addition to the royalty fee a surcharge of up to ten dollars per week if your franchised business is located in a state that imposes additional reporting requirements on a franchisor surcharge. the royalty fee and applicable surcharge shall be due and payable no later than monday of each week which day may be modified by us without prior notice to or approval from you for the week ending on the preceding tuesday in which applicable gross sales as defined below were earned from the franchised business. the weekly royalty fee and applicable surcharge shall be paid by electronic funds transfer as detailed below. for the period of time commencing on the later of the effective date or the date the franchised business opens to the public and for the duration of the term you are required to report gross sales to our designated accounting office which as of the effective date is via the internet at http franchisee.kahalamgmt.com as set forth in section. nothing herein shall prevent franchisor from electronically polling franchisee pos system restaurant store document of management software and financial records or similar tools thereto daily or more frequently by electronic or other remote means and franchisee hereby grants franchisor authority to do so. you shall be required to establish a depository account as defined in section. at the time you execute this agreement as set forth in section. payment of the royalty fee advertising fee as defined in section. and all other fees due under this agreement to us shall be made via electronic transfer of funds from the depository account. to accomplish this electronic transfer of funds from the depository account you must complete sign and deliver to us and maintain for the duration of the term a current electronic funds transfer authorization in a form that we provide. as used in this agreement gross sales means all sales money or things of value received or receivable directly or indirectly by franchisee on account of the franchised business less applicable sales taxes and any properly documented refunds credits and allowances given by you to customers in accordance with the system standards but without deducting any of your income taxes costs and other expenses. all sales made from catering services must be included in the gross sales. advertising fee. a you must pay to us or directly into a national advertising fund or also any regional advertising funds as designated by us at our sole discretion individually and collectively advertising fund a weekly advertising fee of three percent of the gross sales for the preceding week advertising fee. upon thirty days notice by us to you we may unilaterally increase the advertising fee from its current level not to exceed four percent of your weekly gross sales. the advertising fee shall be due and payable with the royalty fee under section. the advertising fee is our property and may be deposited by us into our general operating account. the advertising fund will be used for marketing advertising production and media expenses to promote the cold stone creamery name system products and services. we are entitled to deduct free of charge the following from the advertising fund i reimbursement of expenses overhead and employee salaries for services provided and ii rent for office space provided to the advertising fundamental we have no fiduciary obligation to you in connection with the operation of any advertising fundamental no interest on an unexpended advertising fee shall be imputed or otherwise charged for the benefit of or payable to you. you understand and agree that the only obligations we have regarding the collection and spending of the advertising fee or the administration of the advertising fund are the express contractual obligations in this section. we are not acting as a trustee fiduciary agent or in any other special capacity. we do not give any representation or warranty regarding the quality or effectiveness of the advertising and marketing activities funded by the advertising fee or of the advertising fund and we will have no liability to you with respect to how these funds are spent. two percent of your gross sales is deposited into the national advertising fund and if a cooperative exists where your franchised business is located the remaining one percent of your gross sales is deposited into the regional advertising fund for your cooperative if no cooperative exists where your franchised business is located your franchised business will be considered a single store cooperative and you must contribute the remaining one percent of your gross sales to the regional advertising fund for your store. your own local marketing and advertising should be developed to maximize your particular customer base. store document of. cooperative advertising. a we encourage the formation and operation of franchisee cooperative advertising associations each an association. each association will help coordinate advertising marketing efforts and programs and attempt to maximize the efficient use of local advertising media. if an association is formed for your region you must contribute financially to the association as required by us. failure to do so will be deemed a breach of this agreement and you may also in franchisor sole discretion lose your right to vote as to decisions regarding advertising and marketing efforts and programs. upon our request you will assist in establishing an association or in deciding how to allocate all or part of any fund contribution we elect to distribute to the association. we will decide in our sole discretion whether to make contributions from the fund to an association and how much to contribute. we reserve the right to establish general standards concerning the operation of an association advertising agencies retained by an association and advertising programs conducted by an association. notwithstanding anything to the contrary no association decision will be made or advertising collections spent without our prior written approval. not applicable. depository account payment procedures. as of the effective date you are required to maintain for the duration of the term a depository account depository account at a bank or other federally insured financial institution depository. you are required to maintain a balance of at least three thousand dollars in the depository account at all times during the term by replenishing the depository account to at minimum three thousand dollars after any withdrawals. we shall not be responsible for any bank service charges incurred by you which result from the withdrawal of funds from your depository account. on wednesday of each week you must submit a report to us regarding the weekly period which ended on the preceding tuesday including details on gross sales and other statistical data as provided in this agreement confidential manual or as otherwise specified from time to time by us. we will withdraw funds electronically on monday of each week from the depository account. the withdrawals are based upon the figures you report and constitute the royalty fee and advertising fee as described in sections. and. if you do not submit a report on any wednesday we may estimate the royalty fee and advertising fee based upon prior reports and withdraw the estimated amounts up to the entire three thousand dollars. we will return or credit back to you in our sole discretion any overage within thirty days after our receipt of your report. we shall not be responsible to you for any interest charges for any overage collected due to your failure to timely report your sales. you shall instruct the depository to disburse each week to our designated bank via electronic funds transfer by the close of business on monday or preceding banking business day if monday is a bank holiday the weekly royalty fee and advertising fee and other fees due for that week which week shall end on the preceding sunday. the days of the week specified above may be modified by us without prior notice to or approval from you. we will also withdraw the monthly pos help desk phone support maintenance fee as defined in section. from the depository account on the last thursday of each month. store document of under no circumstances shall such access to the depository account be deemed control or joint control of the depository account by us. subject to reasonable advance notice for non recurring payment amounts we have the right to debit your depository account or any other depository account you have with us according to the terms of your electronic funds transfer authorization for any of the payments described in this agreement. if you do not pay all amounts due by the due date we may suspend our and our affiliates services and support until your payment default is cured. repeated failure to pay all amounts when due whether or not the defaults are subsequently cured may be cause for termination under article. you shall pay us fifty dollars for each electronic funds transfer attempted from your depository account pursuant to this section. that is returned for non sufficient funds. you shall also reimburse us for all other costs and expenses incurred by us in collecting or attempting to collect funds due to us from the depository account for example without limitation charges for non sufficient funds uncollected funds or other discrepancies in deposits or maintenance of the depository account balance in accordance with the terms hereof. the depository account shall be established and maintained solely for the purposes set forth in this section. and any other fees authorized under this agreement and any other agreements between you and us or any of our affiliates. lease review fee. if you request us or one of our designated affiliates to complete a lease review you are required to pay us or our designated affiliate a lease review fee in the amount of two thousand five hundred dollars lease review fee for reviewing and providing comments to your proposed lease. lease guarantee fee. if in order to obtain the lease agreement for the location of your franchised business the landlord requires you to obtain a lease guarantee and we or one of our affiliates agree to serve as such guarantor you will pay us or our affiliate a fee in the amount of ten percent of the total amount of the rental obligations being guaranteed under the lease during its term up to a maximum fee of ten thousand dollars lease guarantee fee. the lease guarantee fee will be due and payable upon our or our affiliate execution of the applicable lease guarantee agreement with the landlord. neither we nor any of our affiliates are required to serve as a guarantor of your lease for the location of your franchised business rather the decision of whether to serve as a guarantor shall be made in our sole discretion. in the event that you request us or our affiliate to either agree to be the tenant under the lease or execute a separate guarantee to the lease and you pay the required lease guarantee fee you agree and acknowledge that payment of the lease guarantee fee shall not in any manner be deemed as an insurance policy which limits your liability in connection with the franchised business including any and all financial liability under the sublease or lease related to the location. you further agree and acknowledge that our or our affiliate agreement to act as tenant or guarantor under the lease and your payment of the lease guarantee fee to us or our affiliate does not result in the assumption or transfer of your liability in connection with the franchised business by or to us or our affiliate. not applicable. store document of. additional training fee. if you desire to receive additional training we will provide additional training time to you for a fee of three hundred dollars per person per day. such additional training will be at a time reasonably agreed to by you and us and will be conducted at franchisor headquarters online or such other location as we may designate in our sole discretion. you will be solely responsible for all transportation costs and expenses food lodging and other personal costs and expenses incurred by you and your employees in connection with this additional training. document administration fee. document administration fee of five hundred dollars document administration fee is payable to us when we must prepare an amendment to your franchise documents see section. g not applicable. transfer franchise fee. a not applicable. potential transferee as defined in section. circa receiving this agreement as may be amended in connection with a full transfer as defined in section. a must pay to us a transfer franchise fee of seventeen thousand five hundred dollars transfer franchise fee. relocation fee. relocation fee of five hundred dollars relocation fee is payable to us when you sign the amendment to your franchise agreement for your relocation see section. not applicable. annual meeting registration fee. if we hold an annual meeting meeting the meeting may be held at various locations throughout the united states and or online as we may designate in our sole discretion. because the planning and funding of the meeting must be done well in advance and requires a substantial financial commitment we have the right to debit your depository account for up to one thousand dollars for the meeting registration fee at any time sixty to ninety days prior to the first day of the meeting. this fee may be debited from your account even if you do not attend the meeting. you will also be solely responsible for all costs incidental to attending the meeting. if you do not attend the meeting we will make available to you one full set of the substantive materials that were presented at the meeting. late report interest late charge non sufficient funds fee breaching royalties draft draw charge. if you fail to submit to us any financial statements forms reports or records required to be provided under this agreement by its due date including your weekly gross sales report for store document of calculating your royalty fee and advertising fee you must pay to us a late report charge of one hundred dollars per week or part thereof. if any fees or assessments due under this agreement including the royalty fee and advertising fee are not paid when due interest shall accrue on the late payment from the date payment is due until the date payment is made at the default rate which amount plus a late charge of five percent of the unpaid amount or one hundred dollars whichever is greater shall be added to each late payment. for any payments made by you to us under this agreement which are returned for non sufficient funds of a processed check you shall be charged a non sufficient funds fee of twenty five dollars per occurrence. pursuant to section. for each electronic funds transfer that is attempted from the depository account but returned for non sufficient funds you shall be charged a fifty dollars non sufficient funds fee per occurrence. franchisor has the absolute right to charge franchisee the greater of three times the fixed royalty fee or if on a percentage royalty fee the royalty fee will be increased up to eighteen percent of gross sales with respect to any period during which franchisee is in breach or default of its his her obligations under this agreement. the royalty fees paid or owing to franchisor with respect to the period during which franchisee is in breach or default are referred to as breaching royalties. breaching royalties will be charged for a minimum fourteen day period regardless of the length of the actual breach or default. if you fail to provide us any necessary information or documentation with respect to our practice of drawing drafts against your bank accounts you must pay us a draft draw charge in the amount of one hundred dollars per day that that failure continues. if as a result of your failure to remit payments required under any provision of this agreement we retain an attorney or a collection agency to collect such payments you must pay all collection costs and expenses including reasonable attorneys fees and expenses whether or not legal proceedings are initiated. our rights under this section. are in addition to any other rights or remedies that we may have as a result of your default under this agreement. audit fees. for the purpose of this section. we have the right at any time during business hours and with or without prior notice to you to inspect and audit or cause to be inspected and audited the business records cash control devices bookkeeping and accounting records sales and income tax records and returns and other records of the franchised business and your entity books and records. you hereby grant us access to any computers utilized by you for such purposes and we will have the ability at all times via modem to obtain daily and weekly sales reports and other financial records that the pos system provides. you will fully cooperate with our representatives the area representative if applicable and independent accountants hired by us to conduct any such inspection or audit. in addition in the event such inspection or audit is made necessary by your failure to furnish reports supporting records or other information as required herein or to furnish such reports records or information on a timely basis or if an understatement of gross sales resulting in an underpayment of the royalty fee or advertising fee for the period of any audit which shall not be for less than one month is determined by any such audit or inspection to be five percent or greater you will pay to us immediately store document of after receipt of the inspection or audit report any additional royalty fee and advertising fee and other amounts due as a result of any such understatement plus interest at the default rate from the date originally due until the date of payment and you must reimburse us for such audit or inspection including the charges of any independent accountants and the travel expenses room board and compensation of such accountants and our employees. the remedies in this section. will be in addition to all other remedies and rights available to us under this agreement or otherwise available. data fee. we may require you to pay us or a third party we designate a data fee of up to seventy five dollars per month for polling or collecting data from your pos system. pos help desk phone support maintenance service fee. you must purchase from us a help desk phone support maintenance service that covers phone support for both the software and hardware of your pos system that is supported by the help desk the cost of which is currently sixty dollars monthly and subject to increase upon thirty days notice pos help desk phone support maintenance service fee. the pos help desk phone support maintenance service fee shall be paid by electronic funds transfer as detailed in section. and debited from your account on the last thursday of each month. new supplier approval fee. all requests for approving new or alternative suppliers must be submitted in writing by you or the supplier to our purchasing department. each request will be reviewed in accordance with our then current procedures and the supplier must meet our then current requirements which may include that our representatives be allowed to inspect the facilities of the proposed supplier and that samples from the proposed supplier be delivered at no charge either to us or to our designee for testing. charge not to exceed the amounts incurred in connection with the inspection and the test with such cumulative amount not to exceed five thousand dollars must be paid by the supplier. if approved in our sole discretion we will notify you or the supplier in writing within sixty days after our receipt of an approval request. you must not offer or sell in any manner any of the proposed alternative supplier products until you receive our written approval of the proposed alternative supplier. reserved. non participation fee. you must offer and sell at the location of the franchised business all products designated by us consistent with our system standards. in addition you must immediately incorporate into the franchised business all new products and services designated by us and must fully participate in all local regional seasonal promotional and other programs initiatives and campaigns adopted by us in which we require you to participate. if you fail or refuse to fully participate in any such program initiative or campaign you may in our sole discretion be required to pay a non participation fee of one hundred dollars per day that you are not in compliance non participation fee. store document of. not applicable. through. not applicable. article. proprietary marks. ownership and right to use. we warrant to you that a we are the owner of all right title and interest in and to the proprietary marks. we have granted to you the personal non exclusive limited revocable right and license to use the proprietary marks in connection with the operation of your franchised business. we have taken and will take all steps reasonably necessary to preserve and protect our rights in the proprietary marks and. we will only permit you to use the proprietary marks in accordance with the system standards. covenants of franchise owners. a you acknowledge our ownership of the proprietary marks and you agree that during the term and after its expiration or termination you will not directly or indirectly contest or aid in contesting the validity of the proprietary marks or our ownership of the proprietary marks nor will you take any action which might impair or prejudice our ownership of the proprietary marks. you shall not directly or indirectly apply to register register or otherwise seek to own or control any of the proprietary marks or any confusingly similar mark thereto whether in whole or in part in any place or jurisdiction either within or outside of the united states nor will you assist any others to do so. you agree that the license granted pursuant to this agreement authorizes you to use the proprietary marks solely in connection with the franchised business only at the location and for no other purpose. you have no right to license or sublicense any aspect of the system standards or any of the proprietary marks. you agree to use the proprietary marks only in the manner and to the extent specifically licensed by this agreement. you further agree that any unauthorized use or continued use of the proprietary marks after the termination or expiration of this agreement will constitute irreparable harm and is subject to injunctive relief. the license granted by this agreement includes only the proprietary marks now existing or which may exist in the future. this license does not include the right to use any other trademarks service marks trade name or trade dress owned by us or our licensor anywhere in the world. you agree that any and all goodwill associated with and identified by your use of the proprietary marks will inure directly and exclusively to our benefit and that on the expiration or termination of this agreement no monetary amount will be due or payable to you as a result of any goodwill associated with your ownership or operation of the franchised business. store document of. limitations on franchisee use of proprietary marks. to develop and maintain high and uniform standards of quality and service and thereby protect our reputation and goodwill and that of the system you agree a to operate and advertise the franchised business only under the proprietary marks authorized by us. to adopt and use the proprietary marks licensed by this agreement solely in the manner prescribed by us. that your corporate partnership or other entity name including trade name will not include any of the proprietary marks in whole or in part or any terms confusingly similar thereto unless first authorized by us in writing. to submit all advertising promotional materials and all printed matter including stationery business cards and any materials to be used on the internet to us for our written approval before you use any of these items and. that we may from time to time change or modify the system standards including modifying existing proprietary marks or adopting new marks. you agree at your own expense to adopt use and display any such new or modified proprietary marks within ninety days after notification from us. however if we require you to modify or discontinue use of our proprietary information or use other information or rights in its place at any time other than upon us granting you a successor term to operate the franchised business pursuant to article and that requirement is a direct result of proceedings or litigation that determined that our and our franchisees use of the proprietary information infringed upon a third party rights we or our affiliate will bear the actual direct and reasonable costs of those modifications or discontinuances. the rights granted to franchisee under this section shall be franchisee sole and exclusive remedy for any infringement by any part of the system. upon your abandonment of the franchised business whether voluntary or involuntary termination or expiration of this agreement you must immediately cease to use in any manner whatsoever any of the proprietary marks or any other marks which in whole or in part may be confusingly similar to any of the proprietary marks. non exclusive license of proprietary marks. you understand and agree that your license to use the proprietary marks is non exclusive that we in our sole discretion can grant to other franchisees the right to use the proprietary marks and obtain the benefits of the system standards in addition to the licenses and rights granted to you under this agreement and that we or our affiliates may develop and license other proprietary marks in conjunction with concepts other than the cold stone creamery concept on any terms and conditions we deem advisable. you will have no right or interest in any such other licenses proprietary marks or systems. notification of infringement and claims. you agree that you will notify us immediately of any apparent infringement of or challenge to your use of any of the proprietary marks or any claim by any person of any rights store document of in any of the proprietary marks. you agree that you will not communicate with any person other than us and our legal counsel in connection with any such infringement challenge or claim. we will have the sole discretion to take such action as we may deem appropriate to protect the proprietary marks and the exclusive right to control any litigation united states patent and trademark office proceeding or other proceeding arising out of any such infringement challenge claim or otherwise relating to any proprietary marks. you agree to execute any and all instruments and documents render such assistance and do such acts and things as may in the opinion of our counsel be necessary or advisable to protect and maintain our interests in connection with any such litigation or proceeding or to otherwise protect and maintain our interests in the proprietary marks. article. trade secrets and proprietary information. innovations. during the term you and your principals officers managers and employees may conceive inventory create design or develop various ideas techniques methods processes and procedures recipes formulae products packaging or other concepts and features relating to restaurant operations business practices or the manufacturing production marketing and sale of super premium ice cream cakes pies smoothies shakespeare specialty beverages other dessert with frozen confections and other food and beverage items and related goods now in existence or later developed adopted or improved in connection with the franchised business individually and collectively innovations. you without further consideration hereby assign any and all of your rights title and interest in the innovations including any intellectual property rights to us and also agree to cooperate with us and our counsel in the protection of the innovations including the perfecting of title thereto in us. in addition you will require all of your principals officers managers and employees to sign an agreement in the form set forth in our system standards and incorporated herein by reference confidentiality agreement and shall be liable to us for obligating your principals officers managers and employees to assign all of their rights title and interest to the innovations to us and requiring your principals officers managers and employees to cooperate in obtaining protecting maintaining and enforcing our right title and interest in the innovations. confidentiality agreement. a in connection with the operation of the franchised business you will from time to time receive have access to or learn certain information and materials that are proprietary to us or our affiliate. you and any person signing this agreement under the heading personal acceptance of sections. and. agree that you will keep confidential and will not use for your own purposes nor supply or divulge to any other person any of our trade secrets including our methods of operation processes techniques formulae and procedures information a reasonable person would believe to be confidential and any other proprietary information regardless of whether such is expressly marked as confidential confidential information. you acknowledge that much of the information imparted to you by us is confidential constitutes trade secrets are unique to us and remains our sole exclusive property. our confidential information includes the following. the confidential manual and any amendments thereto. ingredients recipes and methods of preparation of food products store document of. methods of operation of cold stone creamery restaurants. information about products services or procedures before they become public knowledge. information which relates in any manner to our business or the system standards whether oral or reduced to writing and which is not generally known to or readily ascertainable by other persons who might derive economic benefit from its disclosure or use and. any other information which may be imparted to you from time to time and designated by us as confidential. you and any person signing this agreement under the heading personal acceptance of sections. and. acknowledge and agree that the confidential information and any business goodwill of the franchised business is our sole and exclusive property and that you will preserve the confidentiality thereof. upon termination or expiration of this agreement all items records or documentation recording or incorporating any confidential information including any copies thereof will be immediately turned over by you to us or our authorized representative. you agree to take all steps necessary at your own expense to protect the confidential information including our trade secrets and to adopt and implement all reasonable procedures prescribed by us from time to time to prevent the unauthorized use or disclosure of any of the confidential information. we require that all of your executive officers agents directors shareholders trustees beneficiaries partners and managers who may or are likely to obtain knowledge concerning the proprietary information and who do not sign this agreement under the heading personal acceptance of sections. and. sign the confidentiality agreement binding such person to preserve the confidentiality of the confidential information as part of the terms and conditions of such person employment or association with you. you must obtain a confidentiality agreement signed by any such person prior to or at the same time that you begin employment of or association with that person. this will be a continuing obligation on your part throughout the term. you must keep each original signed confidentiality agreement and provide us with a copy of each confidentiality agreement when requested by us or our authorized representative. notwithstanding the above confidential information shall not include information which you can reasonably prove i entered the public domain through no breach by you or your affiliate of any duty of confidentiality or ii you received our prior express written consent to disclose in the manner in which you disclosed it. if anyone under a confidentiality agreement is legally compelled or required by a regulatory body to disclose any confidential information he she it will notify us as soon as possible and will use his her its best efforts to obtain and give us an opportunity to obtain appropriate assurances of confidential treatment. the requirements under this section. will remain in full force and effect during the term and after termination or expiration of this agreement. store document of article. relationship of the parties and indemnification. relationship of the parties. you and we agree that this agreement does not create any fiduciary or employment relationship between you or any of your employees and us that you are an independent contractor and that nothing in this agreement is intended to make either you or us a general or special agent legal representative subsidiary joint venture partner employee or servant of the other for any purpose. you shall not enter into any agreement on behalf of or otherwise bind us for any purpose. should it ever be asserted that franchisor is the employer joint employer or colorado employer of any of your or your affiliate employees in any private or government investigation action proceeding arbitration or other setting you irrevocably agree to assist franchisor in defending said allegation including if necessary appearing at any venue requested by franchisor to testify on our behalf and as may be necessary submitting itself to depositions other appearances and or preparing affidavits dismissive of any allegation that franchisor is the employer joint employer or colorado employer of any of your employees. indemnification of franchisor. you agree to indemnify defend and hold us and our affiliates including our parent and subsidiary companies current past and future predecessors successors and assigns and each of our shareholders owners directors officers members managers partners joint venturers attorneys employees contractors agents representatives guarantors insurers spouses heirs executors trustees and estates collectively with us indemnified parties harmless for from and against any and all claims liabilities causes of action suits debts duties accounts covenants contracts agreements promises taxes demands obligations costs and expenses including reasonable attorneys fees damages judgments and proceedings of every kind and nature whatsoever whether actual or threatened in law or equity or otherwise under local state or federal law including without limitation the americans with disabilities act ada or the law of any other applicable jurisdiction individually and collectively claims suffered or incurred by any of the indemnified parties arising out of or relating to your construction ownership marketing promotions as defined in article operation including your failure to comply with pci dss or any law statute regulation order rule or ordinance or management of the franchised business except for claims held to have resulted solely from our gross negligence or willful misconduct. notwithstanding the foregoing we will have the right at our option to defend any claim but you must reimburse us upon demand for the costs and expenses of such defense. you shall immediately give us notice of any demand investigation written inquiry action suit proceeding or claim in any way related to us or the cold stone creamery brand. indemnification of franchisee. we agree to indemnify defend and hold you and your affiliates and their shareholders directors officers members managers partners employees agents successors and assignees harmless for from and against any and all claims arising out of any claim of infringement or unfair competition in connection with your authorized use of the proprietary marks or confidential information provided that such use is in accordance with the provisions of this agreement. however if we require you to modify or discontinue use of our proprietary marks store document of or confidential information or use other information or rights in its place at any time other than upon us granting you a successor term to operate the franchised business pursuant to article and that requirement is a direct result of proceedings or litigation that determined that our and our franchisees use of the proprietary marks or confidential information infringed upon a third party rights we will bear the cost of those modifications or discontinuances as set forth in this agreement. special power of attorney. you agree to cooperate with and assist us as we may request from time to time to obtain protect maintain or enforce our intellectual property and proprietary marks including executing documents and appearing as a witness. you hereby appoint us as your attorney of fact and hereby grant us an irrevocable special power of attorney coupled with an interest with full power and authority for the purpose of executing documents or taking such action as necessary or appropriate as you might or could do if personally present hereby ratifying all that we as your attorney in fact shall lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue of this special power of attorney to obtain protect maintain or enforce our intellectual property and proprietary marks if we are for any reason unable to obtain your cooperation or assistance. the special power of attorney granted by this section. shall survive your dissolution death incompetence or disability and the termination or expiration of this agreement. article. operating standards and duties of franchise owner. compliance with system standards and confidential manual. you understand and acknowledge that every detail of the operation of the franchised business is important in order to develop and maintain high and uniform standards of quality cleanliness appearance service facilities and techniques to increase the demand for the system and to protect our reputation and goodwill and that of other cold stone creamery franchisees. you also acknowledge that the operation of the franchised business is your sole responsibility and that neither we nor our affiliates have any responsibility to obtain customers for you. the system standards will constitute provisions of this agreement as if fully set forth herein. authorized products and services. a you agree that you will not without our prior written approval offer at the location any menu items beverages products or services that are not authorized by us for the franchised business as set forth in the system standards. you have complete discretion in establishing the minimum price you charge for your products. although we may suggest pricing strategy you will have the final pricing decision. notwithstanding the terms of section. b we may conduct periodic promotional campaigns during which a specified product or products are promoted at a specified price. during the promotional period you may not charge your customers more than the specified promotional price although you may charge less than the promotional price. store document of. we may conduct new marketing research and development branding and operational program tests which will generally be conducted with experienced existing franchisees and may include incentives and other rights that are not available to all franchisees. you hereby consent to third party vendors suppliers and distributors sharing with us any and all information reports invoices and related documentation covering and otherwise detailing your purchases for the franchised business and to us sharing your contact information with them when we reasonably believe they may offer you a desired benefit. you are required to accept debit and credit cards including visa mastercard and american express and gift loyalty cards from consumers at the franchised business. you are required to acquire as necessary and maintain during the term an approved debit credit and gift loyalty card processing system card processing system to use during the operation of the franchised business. additionally you must utilize our approved third party payment card processor as identified in the system standards for processing all card processing system transactions. specifications and standards for supplies approved suppliers rollouts. a you must purchase or otherwise acquire certain proprietary or required equipment and supplies utilized in the franchised business only from our designated approved distributors or suppliers. if during the term we change designated approved distributors or suppliers for any of the proprietary or required equipment and supplies utilized in the franchised business you shall change to the new designated approved distributor or supplier within sixty days after written notification of such change from us. you acknowledge franchisor and or its affiliates has the right to recei commissions volume discounts purchase discounts performance payments bonuses rebates marketing and advertising allowances colorado op advertising administrative fees enhancements price discounts economic benefits and or other payments payments based upon the actual purchases of the foods beverages and other products by franchisor its affiliates area developers and franchisees from suppliers. any such payments made to francisor may be retained by franchisor deems appropriate in its sole discretion. all payments received from a supplier for a designated purpose such as participation at an annual convention et cetera will be spend in accordance with the supplier designated purpose. if you desire to purchase or otherwise acquire any equipment supplies or inventory items required by the system standards but not previously approved by us or from sources not previously approved by us you must submit to us sufficient specifications photographs drawings and other information sufficient to allow us to determine whether such equipment supplies or inventory items meet our system standards. we may require that our representatives be allowed to inspect the facilities of the proposed supplier and revoke its approval upon the supplier failure to meet any of our then current minimum system standards. we may also require that samples from the proposed supplier be delivered at no charge to us either to us or to our designee for testing. charge not to exceed the reasonable cost and expense of the inspection and the actual cost and expense of the test must be paid to us either by you or by the proposed supplier. we will notify you within sixty days after your request of our approval or disapproval of the proposed product or supplier with such determination to be made at our sole discretion. you acknowledge and agree that our approval of any item or supplier of equipment supplies or inventory not previously approved by us will not in and of store document of itself make the supplier of that item an approved supplier for other cold stone creamery franchise owners in the system. we may in our sole discretion at any time and from time to time re inspect the facilities and products of any approved supplier and revoke its approval upon the supplier failure to meet any of our then current system standards. if you receive a notice of revocation from us you must immediately stop selling disapproved products and purchasing from the disapproved supplier. we will provide to you a list of all recommended and required items of equipment fixtures supplies smallwares and interior decor. this list will be included in the system standards. at any time and from time to time we may in our sole option engage in new product rollouts to add to or change the menu items offered for sale in the franchised business and the ingredients or supplier of ingredients utilized in the preparation of the menu items sold in the franchised business rollout. if we engage in a rollout you shall participate in the changes that are the subject of such rollout including offering the new menu items changing the menu items changing to the new supplier of the ingredients utilized in the preparation of the menu items and changing to the new ingredients utilized in the preparation of the menu items. if we engage in a rollout we will notify you of the details of the rollout and provide you sixty days from said notification to take the applicable actions required by the rollout. compliance with legal requirements and good business practices. you must at your sole expense operate the franchised business in full compliance with all applicable federal state and local statutes laws ordinances and regulations including health and safety regulations food and drug laws disability laws labor and employment laws and data privacy laws as may be amended supplemented or enacted from time to time. you must pay all costs and expenses incurred by and in the conduct of the franchised business including all rent salaries taxes excluding our income taxes disbursements license or permit fees insurance premiums traveling expenses and any other business expenses. if you receive any demand action suit or proceeding or the issuance of any order writings injunction award or decree of any court agency or other governmental instrumentality relating to your franchised business you must immediately notify us and in no event later than three days after your receipt. any such notice must be accompanied by a copy of the demand complaint order writings injunction award decree or other similar document. you must in all dealings with your employees customers suppliers the public and us adhere to the highest standards of honesty integrity fair dealing and ethical conduct. you agree to refrain from any business practice that may be injurious to the system or the goodwill associated with the proprietary marks. maintenance of insurance. at all times during the term you must maintain in full force and effect at least the minimum types and amounts of insurance coverage that we require under one or more policies of insurance each of which shall be primary coverage and shall not be contributory or secondary to any other coverage maintained by us insured under the particular name of the franchisee and for the particular address of the franchised business. such insurance policies must be issued by insurers acceptable to us having an. best financial strength rating of at minimum viii and grant us authority to obtain copies of your certificate of insurance directly from the carrier or your agent broker. the particular store document of requirements of our minimum insurance coverage will be made available to you throughout your term. currently the general liability insurance required by this agreement must i name kahala franchising. as the certificate holder ii name kahala franchising. and mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated and their parents subsidiaries affiliates officers directors and employees as additional insureds iii contain a waiver by the insurance carrier of all subrogation rights against us and our affiliates and our affiliates respective officers directors and employees for casualty losses iv indicate the address of the franchised business being insured and provide that we will receive a copy via an endorsement thirty days prior notice of cancellation of any such policy. additional minimum insurance coverage requirements subject to increase or otherwise change in our sole discretion are as follows type of coverage limits specifications general liability bodily injury property damage per occurrence aggregate building improvements and betterments of full replacement cost no coinsurance minimum of business personal property of full replacement cost no coinsurance special form or equivalent minimum of spoilage flood earthquake and volcanic eruption subject to territory limitations required if in a designated flood zone workers compensation and employer liability insurance as required by law employment practices liability insurance with franchisor defense coverage hired and non owned automobile liability combined single limit per accident you need to evaluate if your particular business will require greater coverage or other types of insurance. for example we strongly recommend that you consult with an insurance broker to discuss whether your particular lease situation requires and or should obtain additional common types of insurance including without limitation umbrella insurance and cyber liability data breach insurance coverage. such insurance may significantly increase your premiums but may also save you money in the long run. you are responsible for maintaining insurance coverage and limits as required by us at minimum pursuant to this section. provided if your landlord requires additional coverage higher limits or any other requirements not required by us then you are responsible for maintaining such additional items as well. you must always keep the required insurance coverage in force at all times during the operation of the franchised business and you must comply with any changes we make periodically to our insurance requirements. upon days store document of notice to you we may require you to increase and or otherwise change the minimum coverage of the insurance referred to above including to reflect identification of special risks changes in law or standards of liability higher damage awards or other relevant changes in circumstances. subject to section. before you may open your restaurant annually thereafter at least ten days prior to renewal of your insurance coverage and at any other time on our request you must provide us with certificates of insurance or copies of insurance policies showing that you are in compliance with our insurance requirements as well as proof that you have paid the premiums you owe for the insurance we require. you will pay your insurance premiums to your insurance broker or to the insurance company issuing the policy. we or our affiliate may at our option and in addition to our other rights and remedies under this agreement obtain such insurance coverage on your behalf and you must promptly execute any applications or other forms or instruments required to obtain any such insurance and pay to us on demand any costs expenses and premiums in whole or part incurred by us. your obligation to obtain and maintain the insurance described above will not be limited in any way by reason of any insurance maintained by us nor will your performance of such obligations relieve you of any obligations under section. management of the franchised business. you are directly responsible for all aspects of operating the franchised business and you agree that you will at all times operate the franchised business and use your best efforts to enhance your franchised business and the system. the franchised business must be personally managed and directly operated by either you or another partner shareholder or member of your business organization or a manager. inspections by franchisor. for the purpose of this section. you must make available to us or our authorized representatives such financial and other information concerning the franchised business and you must permit us or our authorized representatives to have full and free access to such information at your franchised business location during regular business hours without prior notice. we and our authorized representatives will have the right to communicate freely with your employees and make extracts from and copies of all such information. our authorized representative may make announced or unannounced inspections of your franchised business to ensure compliance with all of the requirements of this agreement. personal guaranty non disclosure and non competition agreement. if you are an individual and married your spouse must execute and deliver to us a guaranty of franchise agreement and a non disclosure and non competition agreement at the same time that you sign the agreement unless your spouse is also singing the agreement as an individual. if you are a corporation limited liability company or other business entity each of your shareholders members or other owners whether direct or indirect and their respective spouses if married must execute and deliver to us a guaranty of franchise agreement and a non disclosure and non competition agreement at the same time that you sign this agreement. store document of in the event any person who has not previously signed a guaranty of franchise agreement or a non disclosure and non competition agreement becomes your spouse or shareholder member or other owner direct or indirect or a spouse of such shareholders members or other owner at any time after the execution of this agreement you must cause such person to immediately execute and deliver a guaranty of franchise agreement and a non disclosure and non competition agreement to us. failure to provide a guaranty of franchise agreement or a non disclosure and non competition agreement to us may in our sole discretion be grounds for termination of this agreement as set forth in section. a not applicable. article. advertising and promotion. advertising by franchisor. we or at our election a third party which may be an affiliate of ours will administer the advertising fund that will include your advertising fee and those of other franchise owners in the system. if an affiliate of ours administers the advertising fund or places advertising in connection with the system such affiliate may be paid a fee that will not exceed the fee that would be payable to unrelated third parties for comparable services. unless required by applicable law we will have no obligation to create a trust account escrow account or other special account for the advertising fund and the monies comprising the advertising fund may be placed in our general account. we may also reserve the advertising fee for use in a subsequent year. we will direct all advertising and promotional programs. we will have sole discretion over all creative concepts materials and media used in such programs and the placement and allocation of such programs. the advertising fund will be used for marketing advertising production and media expenses to promote the cold stone creamery trade name system products and services. we are entitled to deduct free of charge the following from the advertising fund reimbursement of expenses overhead and employee salaries for services provided and rent for office space provided to the advertising fundamental we are not required to use any specific amounts from the advertising fund in your market. however we in our sole discretion may use some amounts contributed by you to any advertising fund if any see section. in the same geographic area in which your franchised business is located. advertising by franchisee. in addition to your advertising fee if applicable and unless your franchised business is located in an enclosed shopping mall or other enclosed structure identified in section. you agree to pay for a regular white pages and classified yellow pages telephone directory advertisement in the main directory distributed in the area where your franchised business is located in such directory categories as we specify utilizing forms of listing and classified directory advertisements approved by us. we also recommend that in addition to your advertising fee you spend at least two percent of your monthly gross sales on local advertising. store document of your own local marketing and advertising plan should be developed to maximize your particular customer base. you should not rely upon a marketing program or plan by us as the sole means of obtaining customers. all marketing and advertising materials must be reviewed by the marketing department for look and feel. the marketing department review is not for determining compliance with federal state and local laws. all advertising by you in any medium must be conducted in a professional manner and must conform to the system standards. we may make available to you from time to time advertising promotional plans and materials for purchase. under no circumstances may you use without limitation the name image or voice of a celebrity public figure character or other person in connection with the proprietary marks or the franchised business without our prior written consent. we retain the sole and exclusive right to use without limitation the name services or image of any celebrity public figure character or other person in advertising endorsing or recommending the system. article. accounting procedures and reports. maintenance of records. you shall keep full complete and accurate books and accounts in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and in the form and manner indicated below or as from time to time further required by us. you agree to submit reports and data to us electronically if we advise you to do so. you agree a to submit to us electronically the weekly gross sales as set forth in section. to submit to us on or before the thirtieth th day of each month commencing with the opening of the franchised business in a format and method approved by us including through a third party vendor that franchisee may be required to pay for a profit and loss statement of the franchised business for the preceding calendar month prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. to submit to us within ninety days after the end of each calendar year commencing with the opening of the franchised business in a format approved by us a profit and loss statement and balance sheet including a statement of retained earnings or partnership account for the preceding calendar year. to submit to us at the times required such other periodic forms reports and information as may from time to be time be required by us. to preserve in the english language and for the time periods set forth below all accounting records and supporting documents related to the franchised business individually and collectively records including. daily cash reports. cash receipts journal and general ledger. cash disbursements journal and weekly payroll register. monthly bank statements daily deposit slips and canceled checks store document of. all tax returns including your personal returns and those of your officers shareholders partners and members. suppliers invoices paid and unpaid. dated cash register tapes detailed and summary. semi annual balance sheets and monthly profit and loss statements. daily production throwaway and finishing records and weekly inventories. records of promotion and coupon redemptions. records of all outside sales and. such other records as we may from time to time request. to record all sales on cash registers approved by us as specified in the confidential manual. to file all of your federal and state tax returns on a timely basis and to provide copies of them to us. we may where applicable require that tax returns from all of your shareholders members or partners be provided to us if you are other than an individual. during the term you shall preserve the records for at least the current fiscal year and for the three immediately preceding fiscal years. for three years after the date of any transfer of an interest in this agreement the transferor of such interest will preserve the records for its last three fiscal years of operation under this agreement. for three years after the expiration of the term or after any earlier termination you shall preserve the records for the last three fiscal years of operation of the franchised business and i in connection with our efforts to attract additional franchise owners to the system we will have the right to use without identifying you except as required or allowed by law any financial statements sales reports profit and loss statements or balance sheets provided by you and in connection therewith you authorize us to disclose any information contained on such financial reports as may be required by any federal or state registration or disclosure law. audit by franchisor. we will have the right at any time during business hours and with or without prior notice to you to inspect and audit or cause to be inspected and audited the records and cash control devices of the franchised business and your corporate partnership or limited liability company books and records if you are a corporation partnership limited liability company or other entity. you agree that we may access any computers utilized by you for such purposes. you will fully cooperate with our authorized representatives and independent accountants hired by us to conduct any such inspection or audit. in the event any such inspection or audit discloses an understatement of your gross sales for any period in question you will pay to us immediately after receipt of the inspection or audit report any additional royalty fee or advertising fee due as a result of any such understatement plus interest at the default rate from the date originally due until the date such understatement is paid in full. store document of in addition in the event such inspection or audit is made necessary by your failure to timely furnish records or if an understatement of the royalty fee or advertising fee for the period of any audit which period shall not be for less than one month is determined by any such audit or inspection to be five percent or greater you must reimburse us all amounts incurred in connection with such audit or inspection including our employee costs and expenses any independent accountants and attorneys fees transportation room and meal expenses. the remedies in this section. will be in addition to all our other remedies and rights under this agreement or under applicable law. article. transfer sections. through. apply to all transfers except transfers by us which are described in section. prior consent of franchisor. a as used in this agreement transfer means any voluntary involuntary including by operation of law direct or indirect assignment sale gift or other transfer by you including. full transfer which is any act or circumstance except those set forth in section.a by which fifty percent or more of the ownership or control is shifted from any individual or corporation partnership or other business entity individually and collectively entity to another including i transfer of this agreement or the franchised business or any right or interest granted by this agreement ii transfer of an interest in you if you are an entity iii merger consolidation or issuance of additional ownership interests or redemption of ownership interests in you if you are an entity or iv transfer of an interest in any other entity holding an interest in this agreement or you if you are an entity. affiliate transfer which includes i transfer in a separation or divorce regardless of how much of the ownership or control is shifted from any individual or entity to another ii transfer of this agreement or the franchised business or any right or interest granted by this agreement from your name as an individual to your entity name in which you are the sole owner of the entity iii transfer of this agreement or the franchised business or any right or interest granted by this agreement from your entity name in which you are the sole owner to your name as an individual store document of iv transfer of this agreement or the franchised business or any right or interest granted by this agreement from one entity name to another entity name in which the owners of the entities are the same removing an owner from the franchisee unless the person has a fifty percent or more ownership interest virgin islands adding an owner to the franchisee unless the person has a fifty percent or more ownership interest or vii transfer by which less than fifty percent of the ownership or control is shifted from any individual or entity to another for any act or circumstance listed in section.a we are entering into this agreement based upon our knowledge of and faith in your ability. therefore the franchised business and all the rights granted by this agreement are personal to you and you may not transfer without our prior written consent. any attempted transfer without our prior written consent will be null and void and will give us the right to terminate this agreement and your rights under it in addition to any remedies which we may have for the breach of this covenant by reason of an attempted transfer. we shall not unreasonably withhold or delay our consent to a transfer so long as it is shown to our satisfaction that the potential transferee potential transferee can perform a franchisee obligations under the then current form of franchise agreement and all other agreements legal instruments and documents required of new franchisees. advance notice of proposed terms and right of first refusal. a if you or any of your shareholders members or partners have received and desire to accept a signed bona fide written offer from a third party to transfer you shall notify us and provide us with a complete copy of the offer letter of intent which must include the name address and telephone number for every potential transferee. you must also include information as to the identity of all who will own an interest in this agreement or in the franchised business after the completion of the transfer their respective interests and the proposed terms and conditions of sale and payment. we shall have the right and option exercisable within thirty days after the date we receive a copy of the offer to purchase the interest proposed to be transferred at the price and upon the same terms and conditions specified in the notice. if we do not exercise our option and the terms of the unaccepted offer are altered you must in each such instance notify us of the changed offer and we will again have thirty days to exercise our right to purchase on the altered terms. if we do not exercise our option then the transfer may take place on the terms and price set forth in the notice provided i we give our written consent ii the transfer takes place no later than six months from receipt of our written refusal to exercise our option to purchase and iii all the conditions set forth in section. are satisfied. store document of. requirement for consent to transfer. if a transfer is proposed and we do not exercise our right of first refusal pursuant to section. then we will consent to the transfer provided that a all your obligations under this agreement are fully paid and satisfied including the royalty fee and advertising fee you are not in default under any provisions of this agreement or any other agreement legal instrument or document with us or any of our affiliates and you enter into written agreements with us including except where prohibited by law a general release by you of all claims against us. potential transferee provides to us a completed application and financial documents is financially acceptable is not associated with any of our competitors is of good moral character and reputation and meets our criteria which includes work experience and aptitude ability to devote time and best efforts to the franchised business equity interest in the franchised business ability to speak and read english sufficient in our opinion to communicate with employees customers and suppliers and to satisfactorily complete our training no conflicting interests and other criteria and conditions that we apply to new franchisees. potential transferee provides us with copies of all governing documents of potential transferee. certificate of incorporation or organization by laws stock certificates operating agreement membership certificates if any which must be reasonably satisfactory to us in our sole discretion. you provide to us a copy of the purchase and sale agreement if a full transfer or other documentation evidencing the transfer if an affiliate transfer and following our analysis of the terms and conditions of the proposed transfer we in our sole discretion conclude that such terms and conditions will not interfere with the financial feasibility of the future operation of the franchised business. potential transferee enters into all agreements legal instruments and other documents whether our then current agreements legal instruments and documents or a transfer of this agreement and related legal instruments and documents as determined by us individually and collectively transfer documents. the terms of the transfer documents may vary materially from the current agreements used by us including the payment of a higher royalty fee and advertising fee. not applicable. potential transferee pays to us the transfer franchise fee set forth in the transfer documents if a full transfer or potential transferee pays us the document administration fee if an affiliate transfer franchisee shall be liable to the franchisor for the transfer franchise fee or document administration fee in the event the potential transferee fails to pay such fee that is owing in full. not applicable i potential transferee successfully completes the training program required by the transfer documents if a full transfer store document of. potential transferee agrees to complete all remodeling and improvements as required by us and must upgrade the pos system to the then current required pos system within the time period specified by us if a full transfer. you and potential transferee agree not to assert any security interest lien right or claim now or in the future in the franchised business. any security interest lien claim or right asserted with respect to any personal property at the location must not include any after acquired property and must be subject junior and subordinate to any security interest lien right or claim now or in the future asserted by us our successors or assigns and. you agree to complete and sign a letter of agency letter of authorization or equivalent and provide it to potential transferee so that potential transferee may keep the existing telephone number when the store is transferred to potential transferee. death or incapacity of individual franchisee change in entity. a death or incapacity of franchisee when franchisee is an individual i in the event of your death or incapacity your legal representative may for a period of ninety days from the date of death or incapacitation continue to operate the franchised business provided that the operation is conducted in accordance with this agreement and any other agreements with us. ii if your representative desires to continue the operation of the franchised business beyond the ninety day period then prior to the expiration of this period your legal representative must apply in writing for the right to transfer the franchised business to the person or persons whether spouse heir devisee purchaser or any other person as the legal representative may specify. the application for transfer will be treated in the same manner as any other proposed transfer under this agreement. iii if your legal representative does not comply with the provisions of the preceding paragraph or does not propose a potential transferee acceptable to us under the standards set forth in this agreement all rights licensed to you under this agreement will terminate immediately and automatically revert to us. we shall have the right and option in our sole discretion exercisable upon such termination to purchase all removable furniture fixtures signs equipment and other chattels but not leasehold improvements at a price to be agreed upon by the parties or if no agreement as to price is reached by the parties at such price as may be determined by a qualified appraiser approved by both parties such approval not to be unreasonably withheld. we shall give notice of our intent to exercise the option no later than twenty one days prior to termination. death or incapacity of any shareholder partner or member in franchisee when franchisee is a business entity i in the event of the death or incapacity of any of your shareholders partners or members the surviving shareholders partners or members may for a period of ninety days from the date of death or incapacitation continue to operate the franchised business provided that the operation is conducted in accordance with this agreement and any other agreements with us. store document of ii if your shareholders partners or members desire to continue the operation of the franchised business beyond the ninety day period then prior to the expiration of this period your shareholders partners or members must apply jointly with all surviving shareholders partners or members in writing for the right to transfer the franchised business or the interest of the deceased or incapacitated shareholder partner or member in the franchised business to the person or business entity as the surviving shareholders partners or members may specify. the application for transfer will be treated in the same manner as any other proposed transfer under this agreement. iii if all surviving shareholders partners or members do not comply with the provisions of the preceding paragraph or do not propose a potential transferee acceptable to us under the standards set forth in this agreement all rights licensed to you under this agreement will terminate immediately and automatically revert to us. we shall have the right and option in our sole discretion exercisable upon such termination to purchase all removable furniture fixtures signs equipment and other chattels but not leasehold improvements at a price to be agreed upon by the parties or if no agreement as to price is reached by the parties at such price as may be determined by a qualified appraiser approved by both parties such approval not to be unreasonably withheld. we shall give notice of our intent to exercise the option no later than twenty one days prior to termination. assignment by franchisor. you agree and affirm that we may without your prior consent sell our business our assets or our system in whole or in part to a third party may issue a public offering of our securities may engage in private placement of some or all of our securities may merge with or acquire other corporations or be acquired by another corporation and may undertake a refinancing recapitalization leveraged buyout or other economic or financial restructuring. you further agree and affirm that we have the right now and in the future without your prior consent to purchase merge acquire or affiliate with an existing competitive or non competitive franchise network chain or any other business regardless of the location of such franchise network chain or business which you acknowledge may be proximate to your franchised business and to operate franchise or license such franchise networks chains or businesses operating under the proprietary marks or any other marks following our purchase merger acquisition or affiliation. with regard to any of the above sales assignments and dispositions you expressly and specifically waive any claims demands or damages against us arising from or related to the loss of your rights to use the system as authorized under this agreement. this agreement will inure to the benefit of our successors and assigns. in conjunction with one or more of the transactions contemplated above or as otherwise determined by us we have the right to assign our rights and obligations under this agreement to any person or entity without your prior consent. upon such assignment we will be relieved of all obligations or liabilities then existing or thereafter able to be asserted under this agreement. restrictions on security interests and subfranchising. except as otherwise set forth in this section. you shall not have any rights to pledge encumber hypothecate or otherwise give any third party a security interest in this agreement in any manner whatsoever nor subfranchise or otherwise transfer or attempt to subfranchise or transfer the franchised business in whole or in part so long as it is operated as the franchised business without our express prior written permission which permission may store document of be withheld for any reason whatsoever in our sole discretion. notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary you shall have the right to pledge your accounts receivable net of royalties and rent without our prior written consent for the sole purpose of obtaining financing for the operation of the franchised business provided you are in full compliance with this agreement and any other agreement arrangement or understanding with us. article. successor term we have no obligation under any circumstances to extend your rights to operate the franchised business beyond the term. notwithstanding the foregoing in the event the term expires in accordance with section. you may apply to us to extend your rights to operate the franchised business for a successor term. in the event you desire to apply to us to extend your rights to operate the franchised business for a successor term you must give us notice to that effect at least one hundred twenty days prior to the expiration date of the term. in addition to giving the notice of intent to apply for a successor term referred to above in a timely manner in order to qualify for a license to operate the franchised business for a successor term you must also at a minimum meet each of the following requirements a you must successfully complete the then current application process required of new franchisees. you must not then be in default under this agreement or any other agreement legal instrument or document with us or any of our affiliates and no event shall have occurred that with the giving of notice the passage of time or both would constitute a default under this agreement including all financial obligations to us. you must be in complete compliance with the terms of this agreement including all financial obligations to us and the then current confidential manual. you must not have received more than three notices of default or breach of this agreement during its term nor more than two notices of default or breach during the five years immediately preceding the effective date of the proposed successor term. you must have the existing right to maintain possession of the location or you must have secured and developed a suitable substitute location that meets our then current minimum site requirements such confirmation will be provided to you by us in writing. you must sign a general release provided by us. you and we must execute all agreements legal instruments and other documents individually and collectively successor franchise documents then used by us in the granting of franchises and then being required of new franchise owners in connection with the system. the successor franchise documents will supersede this agreement but will not terminate your liability to perform any obligations which you have not yet performed under this agreement or which survive the termination of this agreement nor will the successor franchise documents terminate or supersede any guaranty of franchise agreement confidentiality agreement or non disclosure and non competition agreement executed pursuant to this agreement. the terms of the successor franchise documents may vary materially from the current agreements used by us including the payment of a higher royalty fee and advertising fee store document of. the equipment fixtures and signage used in connection with the operation of the franchised business must either meet our then existing system specifications and standards or you must agree within a timeframe required by us to replace or refurbish such items and otherwise modify the methods of operation of the franchised business at your cost and expense in order to comply with our system specifications and standards then applicable to new franchise owners i you agree to complete all remodeling and improvements as required by us and must upgrade the pos system to the then current required pos system within the time period specified by us and. you shall have paid to us the then current initial franchise fee. we reserve the right to reject your application for a successor term at our sole discretion for any reason without limitation failure to meet our then current standards or requirements for new franchisees. if we decide to reject your application for a successor term to operate the franchise business we will give you a notice to that effect within sixty days after you deliver to us your notice of intent to apply for a successor term. article. default and termination. default termination. a you will be in default under this agreement i if a you become insolvent or make an assignment for the benefit of creditors you file a petition in bankruptcy or if such a petition is filed against and consented to by you and such petition is not dismissed within thirty days from the filing date of such petition you are adjudicated bankrupt a bill in equity or other proceeding for the appointment of your receiver or other custodian for your business or assets is filed and is consented to by you or is not dismissed within thirty days from the filing date of such bill or other proceeding a receiver or other custodian is appointed proceedings for composition with creditors under any state or federal law is instituted by or against you the real or personal property of the franchised business is sold at levy thereupon by any sheriff marshal or constable or sold by a secured party under any state commercial code ii if you fail to pay perform observe or comply with any of your duties and obligations under this agreement or the confidential manual including failure to provide a fully executed copy of the lease to us when due and failure to pay when due any sum due to us under this agreement including the royalty fee and advertising fee or to any advertising fund inclusive of any association or if you breach any of your obligations under any lease sublease mortgage equipment agreement promissory note vendor account conditional sales contract or other contract arising from or in connection with the franchised business to which you are a party or by which you are bound whether or not we are a party thereto iii if your lease or sublease for the location of the franchised business is either a in default and you fail to cure such default as provided in the lease or sublease is terminated for reason of default by you or the location is lost as a result of your failure to comply with the lease or sublease store document of iv if you fail within thirty days of the entry of a final judgment against you in an amount exceeding two thousand dollars to discharge vacate or reverse the judgment or to stay its execution pending appeal or to discharge any judgment which is not vacated or reversed within thirty days after expiration of the stay of execution if we determine that a serious health or safety problem exists at the franchised business in which case we may require you to immediately correct the problem or cease operating until the problem is corrected virgin islands if you or any owner colorado owner or principal of the franchised business is convicted of a felony a crime involving moral turpitude or any other crime or offense that is reasonably likely to adversely affect the system the goodwill associated therewith or our interest therein vii except for any reason provided in section. if you abandon the franchised business which abandonment shall conclusively be deemed established if the franchised business is closed for more than three consecutive days viii except for any reason provided in section. if you close or relocate the franchised business without our express advance written consent ix if you fail to maintain an independent contractor relationship with us if you either negligently or knowingly inaccurately report or fail to report any information in your franchise application xi if you or any owner colorado owner or principal of the franchised business commits an act or permits an act to be committed that violates any federal state or local law that adversely impacts the franchised business xii if you fail to participate in any rollout detailed in section. xiii if you violate any of the provisions of sections. or. including the requirement that you a sell or offer for sale only those products and services authorized by us purchase such authorized products and services only from suppliers or service providers who are approved in writing by us and utilize or switch to any of our designated approved suppliers including a supplier who has entered into a national or regional master supplier agreement with us xiv if you transfer or attempt to transfer any rights or obligations under this agreement or any other property or assets to any third party in violation of the provisions of article xv if you or any of your owners officers directors managers members or partners as applicable a become subject to. executive order or are involved in any activity that violates the. foreign corrupt practices act or any other anti corruption bribery or any other laws orders or governmental notices affecting your ability to conduct business in or with the united states as may be amended and whether in effect as of the effective date or at any time during the term are identified on the. department of the treasury office of foreign assets control specialty designated national and blocked persons store document of list or receive any funding from any country that is subject to an embargo by the united states any foreign government or government official political party or xvi if you intentionally made any false representations and warranties under section. cross default default by you under this agreement will be deemed a default of all agreements between i you and your principals in his or her individual capacity or any other entity in which your principals are owners members managers shareholders or partners individually and collectively franchisee entity and ii us or any of our affiliates or predecessors individually and collectively franchisor entity. franchisee entity default of any other agreement legal instrument or other document between the franchisee entity and a franchisor entity will be deemed a default under this agreement. default by any guarantor of your obligations under this agreement or any agreement legal instrument or document between a franchisee entity and a franchisor entity will be deemed a default of this agreement. termination if you fail to cure any default to our satisfaction within the applicable period following notice from us if applicable or otherwise breach this agreement we may in addition to all other remedies at law or in equity or as otherwise set forth in this agreement immediately terminate this agreement. this termination will be effective immediately upon the giving of notice pursuant to article. cross termination if this agreement is terminated as a result of your default of this agreement or any other agreement related to the franchised business we may at our option elect to terminate any or all other agreements legal instruments or documents between a franchisee entity and a franchisor entity. if any agreement legal instrument or document between a franchisee entity and a franchisor entity is terminated as a result of a default by the franchisee entity we may at our sole discretion elect to terminate this agreement. it is agreed that an incurable or uncured default under this agreement or any other agreement legal instrument or document between a franchisee entity and a franchisor entity will be grounds for termination of this agreement or any other agreement legal instrument or document between a franchisee entity and a franchisor entity without additional notice or opportunity to cure. opportunity to cure. a fourteen day cure period except as otherwise provided in this section. you will have the right to cure your default under this agreement within fourteen days after notice of default is given by us pursuant to article. notwithstanding the foregoing the following lesser periods will apply under the circumstances described. seven day cure period seven day cure period will apply if you fail refuse or neglect to pay when due any monies owing to us including the royalty fee and advertising fee or otherwise to any advertising fund inclusive of any association or if you fail to maintain the insurance coverage set forth in this agreement. hour cure period forty eight hour cure period will apply if you are in default of section. or if you fail to participate in any limited time product offering value offering contest promotion or charity event. you must initiate your participation in such offering contest promotion or event within forty eight hours and fully participate in such store document of offering contest promotion or event as soon as reasonably possible in our sole discretion thereafter. hour cure period twenty four hour cure period will apply to your violation of any law regulation order or our standards relating to health sanitation or safety or except as provided in section. if you cease to operate the franchised business for a period of forty eight hours without our prior written consent. in addition a twenty four hour cure period will apply if you post on any site or direct others to any site or page post blog or other social media site where there are posted any defamatory or offensive comments about other franchisees the cold stone creamery brand other brands franchised by us or one of our affiliates your or other franchisees customers any of our your or franchisees vendors us or any of our affiliates or any of our your or franchisees competitors. immediate cure period less than hours an immediate cure period less than twenty four hours will apply if you post any content to a site in which the content includes any inappropriate public displays of affection our or others confidential information or materials violations of health or safety standards foul or obscene language or any images of or information about any persons from whom you did not obtain prior written consent. no cure period no cure period will be available if you are in default of sections. a i a iii. a virgin islands a vii. a viii. a xiv. a xv or. if you intentionally underreport weekly gross sales falsify financial data fail to promptly provide upon our request financial data and records specified in this agreement or otherwise commit an act of fraud with respect to your rights or obligations under this agreement if you repeatedly fail to comply with the provisions of this agreement whether or not subsequently cured if you having twice previously cured a default of this agreement commit the default again if you made any false representations and warranties under sections. fahrenheit g meter or. north or if you engage in trademark misuse or otherwise materially misuse or make an unauthorized use of any of the components of the system or commit any other act which does or can reasonably be expected to materially impair the goodwill or reputation associated with any aspect of the system. statutory cure period if a statute in the state or municipality in which the franchised business is located requires application of that state or municipal law and that statute requires a cure period for the applicable default which is longer than any cure period specified in this article the statutory cure period will apply. our right to take over management. we have the right but not the obligation under the circumstances described below to enter the franchised business and assume the franchised business management for any period of time we feel is appropriate. if we assume the franchised business management you must pay us in addition to the royalty fee and advertising fee six percent of the gross sales plus our direct out of pocket cost and expenses for the period of time we assume the franchised business management. if we assume the franchised business management you acknowledge that our duty is limited to using our reasonable efforts and we will not be liable to you or your owners for any debts losses or obligations the franchised business incurs or to any of your creditors for any supplies or services the franchised business purchases. we may assume the franchised business management if you abandon the franchised business or if you fail to comply with any provision of this agreement and did not cure the failure within the store document of time period we specify in our notice to you. you agree to complete and sign a letter of agency letter of authorization or equivalent and provide it to us upon our request if we assume the franchised business management so that we may keep the existing telephone facsimile alarm and credit card machine numbers as applicable in operation under our phone service provider. you also agree to keep the phone water gas electric service as applicable turned on and active for one week after we assume the franchised business management to allow us to switch the services over to us or our affiliate. our exercise of our management rights under this section. will not affect our right to terminate this agreement. remedies. a interest costs and damages if you fail to remit when due any payments required under this agreement you agree to pay in addition to the unpaid amounts all of our collection costs and expenses expert fees reasonable attorneys fees and costs and expenses including all fees costs and expenses of court including all appeals with interest on the unpaid amounts at the default rate or the highest permissible rate. if you fail to cure a default following notice within the applicable time period set forth in section. or if this agreement is terminated as a result of your default you shall pay to us all damages of any kind and nature whatsoever and all collection costs and expenses expert fees reasonable attorneys fees and costs and expenses including all fees costs and expenses of court including all appeals together with interest at the default rate or the highest permissible rate. if you fail to report gross sales in accordance with sections. and. we may estimate your royalty fee and advertising fee based on prior reports and may sue for and obtain judgment for such estimates unless you prove prior to the entry of any default order or judgment that your royalty fee and advertising fee are different than the estimates. waiver of punitive damages both we and you waive to the full extent permitted by law any right they otherwise may have had to claim pursue demand or receive any exemplary or punitive damages arising out of or related in any way to this agreement and its addenda amendments appendices exhibits and attachments. if you breach any of the terms of this agreement including if you are in default of this agreement we may enforce our rights by injunction specific performance or any other remedy available under this agreement at law or in equity including termination. these remedies are cumulative and not exclusive and we may use all remedies available. in addition we may elect to terminate this agreement and all your rights under it as set forth in section. if you breach any of the terms of this agreement including if you are in default of this agreement we have the right to have a receiver appointed to take possession manage and control the assets of the franchised business collect the profits and pay the net income for the operation of the franchised business as ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction. the right to appoint a receiver will be available regardless of whether waste or danger of loss or destruction of the assets exists. effect of termination or expiration. upon termination or expiration of this agreement we can advise all suppliers of cold stone creamery proprietary food items and other supplies bearing any of the proprietary marks or service marks to cease delivering the items and products to you. store document of upon your abandonment of the franchised business whether voluntary or involuntary any termination of this agreement whether pursuant to sections. or otherwise or upon expiration of the term you must immediately cease to hold yourself out to the public as a franchise owner of the system and you must comply with the following a immediately pay to us or any affiliate of ours all sums owing from you to us or such affiliate including the royalty fee and advertising fee for any period prior to the date of termination the applicable early termination damages as defined in section. below and all amounts owed for services supplies or other items purchased by you from us or any affiliate of ours or that were financed by us or any affiliate of ours or which we or any affiliate of ours loaned to you together with any interest or late fees accrued thereon together with all other sums due us under this agreement and all damages of any kind or nature whatsoever that may be allowed by law. immediately cease to use in any manner whatsoever including in all advertising the proprietary marks any trade secrets any confidential information any benefits of the system or any part thereof any methods associated with the system any forms recipes confidential manual slogans signs sign posts marks symbols or devices used in connection with the operation of the franchised business and you must deliver or destroy all of the above mentioned materials including any materials containing or referencing any of the foregoing to us as directed by us. if we do not recover any such items such items shall be valued at their then current replacement cost for purposes of determining the damages owing by you to us for failure to return such items if we pursue a damage claim as a result thereof. immediately discontinue all advertising as a franchisee of the system and thereafter refrain from any advertising that would indicate that you are or ever were a franchisee or licensee of ours or otherwise were affiliated with us or the system. immediately take such steps as may be necessary or appropriate to i delete your listing in all telephone directories if applicable and terminate any other listings that indicate that you are or were a franchisee or licensee of ours or otherwise were affiliated with us or the system and ii transfer to our designee or us all telephone numbers used by you in connection with the franchised business. you acknowledge that between you and us we have the sole right and interest in all telephone numbers and directory listings associated with any proprietary marks and you authorize us and appoint us and any officer or agent of ours as your attorney in fact to direct the telephone company and all listings agencies to accept such direction or this agreement as conclusive evidence of our exclusive rights in such telephone numbers and directory listings and our authority to direct their transfer. immediately take such action as may be required to cancel all fictitious or assumed names amend any entity name or dissolve any entity that contains any proprietary mark in whole or in part regardless of whether the entity name was authorized by us and amend or cancel any and all equivalent registrations relating to your use of any proprietary mark. you acknowledge that between you and us we have the sole right and interest in all such fictitious or assumed names entity name and equivalent registrations and you authorize us and appoint us and any officer or agent of ours as your attorney in fact to effect the termination or cancellation of such fictitious or assumed names or equivalent registrations store document of should you fail or refuse to do so and the appropriate federal state and local agencies may accept your direction or this agreement as conclusive evidence of our exclusive rights in such fictitious or assumed names or equivalent registrations and our authority to direct their termination or cancellation. comply with the confidentiality requirements and the covenant against competition in this agreement for the specified period. you acknowledge that you or if an entity your authorized representative has carefully reviewed the confidentiality requirements and the covenant against competition in this agreement and that you have agreed to be bound by all the requirements and covenants and. maintain at a place made known to us all books records and reports required under this agreement for a period of not less than three years after the date of termination or expiration of this agreement to allow us to make a final inspection of your books and records for the purpose of verifying that all amounts owing have been paid. if you fail to do any of the foregoing we may pursue any remedy available at law or in equity against i you ii any or all guarantors of your obligations under this agreement and iii you and any or all guarantors of your obligations under this agreement. we have the right but not the obligation to purchase from you any assets or property but not leasehold improvements used in the operation of the franchised business for an amount equal to the value as defined below as of the termination date. if we are required by law regulation or court order to purchase the equipment and other tangible assets used in connection with the franchised business the purchase price will be equal to the value. for purposes of this agreement the term value means subject to applicable law an amount equal to your cost for such assets less depreciation and amortization using a two hundred percent declining balance method over a five year period. if all or any portion of your assets that are being purchased by us or our authorized representative are subject to lien we or our authorized representative may pay on your behalf the lienholder that portion of the purchase price for your assets which may be the entire purchase price that is necessary to obtain the release of those assets from the lien in lieu of paying you those funds. further we may offset any amounts payable to you pursuant to this section. or otherwise pursuant to this agreement against any unpaid amounts payable to us or our affiliates pursuant to this agreement or any agreement executed in connection with this agreement. covenant not to compete conflicting interests. a during the term and for a period of two years after your abandonment of the franchised business expiration of this agreement or termination of this agreement whether voluntary or involuntary you shall not engage in any competing business as defined in section. circa with any cold stone creamery restaurant nor shall you have any conflicting interest as defined in section. d in a competing business. the provisions of this agreement bind you in any capacity including as a franchisee sole proprietor partner limited partner member employer franchisor shareholder officer director or employee. during the term and for a period of two years after your abandonment of the franchised business expiration of this agreement or termination of this agreement whether voluntary or involuntary you shall not divert or attempt to divert any business customers or store document of potential customers of the cold stone creamery system to any competing business by direct or indirect inducement or otherwise. in addition you shall not at any time do or perform any act directly or indirectly which harms the goodwill or reputation of us or the system. for purposes of this section. competing business means a business which is primarily engaged in the sale of ice cream along with cakes cupcakes pies smoothies and other dessert products prepared or served with ice cream or as an ingredient and all variations thereof within a geographical area consisting of during the term anywhere else and after abandonment expiration or termination of this agreement within a ten mile radius from the location or location of any cold stone creamery restaurant of ours our third party licensees or our third party franchisees. the term cold stone creamery restaurant includes not only the restaurants now in existence but also those established at a later date. the term of this covenant will be extended by any time consumed in litigation to enforce it in both trial and appellate courts. if a court of competent jurisdiction determines that the restrictions in this paragraph are excessive in time geographic scope or otherwise the court may reduce the restriction to the level that provides the maximum restriction allowed by law. for purposes of this section. conflicting interest means an interest by which you or your executive officers directors and shareholders if you are a corporation or your partners if you are a partnership or your members if you are a limited liability company or your designated manager directly or indirectly have a controlling interest in lend money to consult with or otherwise assist any competing business. if any of the persons named above do not sign this agreement under the heading personal acceptance of sections. and. then you agree to obtain the execution by such person of a written agreement setting forth the foregoing in a form acceptable to us. continuing obligations. all your obligations that expressly survive the expiration or termination of this agreement including sections. and. or by the implicit nature thereof require performance after the expiration or termination of this agreement will continue in full force and effect subsequent to and notwithstanding your abandonment of the franchised business whether voluntary or involuntary the expiration of the term or termination of this agreement until they are satisfied in full or by their nature expire. the indemnities and obligations set forth in article will continue in full force and effect subsequent to and notwithstanding the expiration or termination of this agreement. remedies. you acknowledge and agree that the restrictions contained in this agreement including in this article are fair and reasonable and necessary for the protection of our legitimate business interests and you intend and agree that such restrictions be enforceable and enforced to their fullest extent. you further understand and agree that notwithstanding any other provision of this agreement your breach of your obligations under this article will cause us irreparable harm for which recovery of monetary damages alone would not be an adequate remedy. both parties shall be entitled to obtain timely injunctive relief including a temporary restraining order preliminary and permanent injunctions to protect their rights under this agreement in addition to and not exclusive of any and all other remedies available to each party. store document of. early termination damages. if you discontinue operating your franchised business before this agreement expires with or without obtaining our prior written consent or in the event of a termination of this agreement arising from or related to your default and breach of its provisions you will become obligated to pay franchisor early termination damages early termination damages. the early termination damages shall be considered damages and not a penalty are not in lieu of other damages and your payment of these damages shall not constitute a release of any other obligation owed to us. franchisor franchisee each individual signing on behalf of franchisee and each guarantor guaranteeing franchisee obligations hereunder hereby acknowledge and agree that franchisor losses due to franchisee unilateral closure of the franchised business or termination of this agreement would be highly difficult or impossible to calculate with reasonable certainty and therefore have agreed at the outset of this agreement that the early termination damages and the formula for calculating these damages constitutes a reasonable good faith forecast of franchisor estimated losses and damages due to the premature closure of the franchised business or termination of this agreement. the amount of the early termination damages is calculated as follows a compute the average monthly royalty fee and advertising fee due for any consecutive twelve month period within the forty eight months immediately preceding the date we receive notification of the closure or if you failed to timely notify us of the closure then the date the franchise business closed or if the franchised business has been open for less than twelve months the average monthly royalty fee and advertising fee due since the opening of the franchised business monthly average. multiply the monthly average by the number of months remaining in the term and. divide the resulting total computed indiana above by two. for example purposes only if the average monthly royalty fee and advertising fee were collectively and there were five years months remaining in the term the early termination damages would be calculated as follows months. if you unilaterally terminate this agreement prior to the end of the term you must give us ninety days prior notice of the early termination early termination notice. within ten days after our receipt of your early termination notice we will calculate the early termination damages which will be due and payable thirty days prior to the closure of your franchised business. in the event of a termination arising from or related to your default under this agreement or that you do not i provide us with the early termination notice at least ninety days prior to the early termination of your franchised business and this agreement ii remain open for at least ninety days after providing us with the early termination notice and iii pay the early termination damages in full at least thirty days prior to closing of the franchised business the early termination damages due may in our sole discretion be increased as follows it will be calculated by multiplying the monthly average by the number of months remaining in the term and will not be divided by two. store document of if you have not paid your royalty fee and advertising fee for any period within the forty eight months prior to notifying us of your early termination or if you have not reported your gross sales for any period within the forty eight months prior to notifying us of your intended early termination we will estimate the royalty fee and advertising fee based upon prior reports to calculate the monthly average. article. notices unless otherwise provided in this article all notices specified by this agreement or required by law must be in writing and given by personal delivery sent by carrier i fedex ups et cetera certified mail return receipt requested. all notices to us must be given at the address set forth on page of this agreement or to such other address as we may designate in writing from time to time in accordance with this article. all notices to you may be given at the address set forth on page of this agreement at the address of the franchised business at any of your franchised restaurants at your residence if an individual or at the residence of your principal shareholder partner or member if a business entity. notices will be conclusively deemed to be given delivered and effective when sent pre paid and actually left in the custody of an adult agent employee or resident at a place of business or residence if given by personal delivery or if given by carrier twenty four hours after deposited with carrier or if by. certified mail three days after deposited with the. postal service. you have an obligation to promptly notify us pursuant to this article whenever your mailing address phone number or email address change. notwithstanding the foregoing we may give you written notice via email to an email address you provide us regarding all notices specified by this agreement or required by law with such email notification to be deemed received by you twenty four hours after we send it unless you otherwise earlier acknowledge receipt. article. construction and enforcement miscellaneous. independent contractors. the relationship between you and us is that of independent contractors. you are in no way to be deemed our partner joint venturer agent employee or servant. you have no authority to bind us to any contractual obligation or incur any liability for or on our behalf. you shall identify yourself as an independent owner of the franchised business in all dealings with customers lessors contractors suppliers public officials employees and others. severability and substitution of provisions. except as provided to the contrary in this agreement each article section term and provision of this agreement and any portion thereof will be considered severable and if for any reason any such portion of this agreement is held to be invalid contrary to or in conflict with any applicable present or future law or regulation or as a result of a final non appealable ruling issued by any court agency or tribunal with competent jurisdiction in a proceeding to which we are a party that regulation or ruling will not impair the operation of or have any other effect upon such other portions of this agreement as may otherwise remain valid and such other portions will continue to be given full force and effect and bind the parties to this agreement. if the severed provision is material to this agreement we shall promptly provide a substitute provision to replace the invalid severed provision consistent with then current law and the original intent of the parties. store document of if any applicable and binding law or rule of any jurisdiction requires a greater prior notice of the termination of or refusal to renew or grant a successor term to this agreement than is required under this agreement or the taking of some other action not required under this agreement or if under any applicable law regulation or court ruling of any jurisdiction any provision of this agreement or any specification standard or operating procedure prescribed by us is invalid or unenforceable the prior notice or other action required by such law regulation or court ruling will be substituted for the comparable provisions of this agreement and we will have the right in our sole discretion to modify such invalid or unenforceable provision specification standard or operating procedure to the extent required to be valid and enforceable. such modifications to this agreement shall be effective only in such jurisdiction unless we elect to give them greater applicability and otherwise shall be enforced as originally made and entered into in all other jurisdictions. dispute resolution. a except as otherwise provided herein any dispute claim or controversy arising out of or relating to this agreement the breach hereof the rights and obligations of the parties hereto or the relationship between the parties or the entry making interpretation or performance of either party under this agreement dispute which cannot be resolved by mediation under section. d or is not subject to mediation under the terms of this agreement shall be settled by arbitration administered by the american arbitration association aaa in accordance with its commercial arbitration rules as modified below. any arbitration shall take place before a sole arbitrator in maricopa county arizona or if our headquarters are no longer located in maricopa county arizona then the arbitration shall take place in the county in which our headquarters are located at the time the arbitration is commenced. you agree that conducting the arbitration where we are located is appropriate due to the multiple locations throughout the united states where our franchisees are located. the parties agree that the arbitrator shall be an attorney licensed to practice law in the united states and must have a minimum of five years of experience in franchise law. judgment on the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court of competent jurisdiction. the arbitrator shall in the award allocate all of the costs and expenses of the arbitration including the fees of the arbitrator and the reasonable attorneys fees of the prevailing party against the party who did not prevail. to the extent permitted by applicable law no issue of fact or law shall be given preclusive or collateral estoppel effect in any other dispute arbitration proceeding or litigation except to the extent such issue may have been specifically determined in another proceeding between the parties. this agreement to arbitrate shall survive any termination or expiration of this agreement however effected. the parties agree that any arbitration shall be solely between them including any affiliates and shall not include as a party by consolidation joinder or in any other manner any other person or entity unless both parties consent in writing. both parties shall have the absolute right to refuse such consent. further the parties expressly waive any right to bring or participate in any class or other consolidated joined or multi party arbitration claim or proceeding whether or not permissible under the aaa commercial arbitration rules including any claim brought on their behalf by an association of which it he or she is a member. at the request of any party the arbitration shall be conducted in a manner that maintains the confidentiality of the proceedings. the arbitrator will issue a reasoned award with findings of fact and conclusions of law. actions to enforce an express obligation to pay monies may be brought under the expedited procedures of the aaa commercial arbitration rules. the federal arbitration act store document of shall govern excluding all state arbitration laws. arizona law will govern all other issues. with respect to discovery the arbitrator shall require each party to make a good cause showing before any discovery exceeding that specifically authorized by the aaa commercial arbitration rules will be granted. prior to the commencement of an arbitration proceeding the parties must first submit any dispute to non binding mediation. at the request of any party the mediation will be confidential. the mediation shall be conducted in maricopa county arizona or in the county in which our headquarters are located at the time of mediation unless the parties shall mutually agree to a different location. the parties to the mediation will share equally in its costs and expenses except those costs and expenses incurred separately by each party including counsel fees and expenses. the mediation process will be deemed completed when the parties agree that it has been completed the mediator declares that any impasse exists or sixty days have elapsed since the date of the initiating party notice to the other party that it is initiating the mediation process whichever occurs first. notwithstanding anything contained in this agreement to the contrary the provisions of sections. a b circa and. d do not apply to a dispute where i we bring an action for an express obligation to pay monies declaratory relief preliminary or permanent equitable relief any action at law for damage to our goodwill the confidential information the proprietary marks or for fraudulent conduct by you or ii the delay resulting from the mediation process may endanger or adversely affect the public for example unhealthy unsafe or unsanitary conditions would continue to exist. for such disputes we may bring an action in any federal or state court having jurisdiction whether for monetary damages temporary preliminary and permanent injunctive relief or specific performance in addition to and not exclusive of any other remedies available to us. you hereby consent to and waive any objection or defense and agree not to contest venue forum non conveniens or jurisdiction of such court or arbitration. disputes concerning the validity or scope of arbitration including whether the dispute is subject to arbitration are beyond the authority of the arbitrator and will be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to the federal arbitration act. et seq. as amended from time to time. either party may appeal the final award of the arbitrator if it is over one hundred thousand dollars to the appropriate. district court. the court review of the arbitrator findings of fact will be under the clearly erroneous standard and the court review of all legal rulings will be delaware novo. if it should be determined that this provision for federal court review is not enforceable then either party may appeal the arbitrator final award if it is over one hundred thousand dollars to a panel of three arbitrators chosen under aaa optional appellate arbitration rules which will employ the same standards of review stated immediately above. applicable law and forum waiver of jury statute of limitations. a except to the extent that the united states trademark act of as amended. et seq. or the franchising laws of any state that may be applicable the laws of the state of arizona govern all rights and obligations of the parties under this agreement without regard to conflict of law. the parties agree subject to the mandatory mediation and arbitration provisions of section. that any appropriate state or federal court located in store document of maricopa county arizona has exclusive jurisdiction over any dispute arising under or in connection with this agreement and is the proper forum in which to adjudicate the case or controversy. notwithstanding the foregoing any action initiated by us may at our election be brought in any jurisdiction where you are domiciled or that has jurisdiction over you. the parties hereto irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of and venue in any such court and hereby waive any objection or defense thereto. the parties agree that all disputes submitted to the court pursuant to this section shall be tried to the court sitting without jury notwithstanding any state or federal constitutional or statutory rights or provisions. notwithstanding anything contained in this agreement to the contrary the parties agree that any claims under arising out of or related to this agreement must be brought within two years of the date on which the underlying cause of action accrued and the parties hereby waive any right to bring any such action after such two year period except for the collection of any unpaid royalty fee advertising fee and any other amount due to us or our affiliate. you hereby waive the right to seek or collect punitive multiple consequential and special damages in any forum including arbitration. you hereby further waive the right if any of any association or membership group to assert claims on your behalf in any action. you hereby waive the right to any damages in connection with or resulting from the wrongful issuance of an injunction. the parties agree that the maximum damages that you may recover in connection with a wrongful termination of your franchise and this agreement will be an amount equal to the product of i the annual net profit as defined below multiplied by ii the lesser of a the number of full years existing between the date on which the franchise and this agreement were wrongfully terminated and the date on which the term would have otherwise expired or three. for purposes of this agreement the term net profit means an amount equal to the net profits of your franchised business as reflected on your tax return filed with the internal revenue service prior to such termination provided however that if such tax return reflects the operations of your franchised business for a period less than one year such net profits will be annualized based upon the net profits reflected in such tax return. no guarantee of franchisee success. you have been informed of and acknowledge the highly competitive nature of the business involved and agree that the successful operation of your franchised business will store document of depend in part upon your best efforts capabilities management and efficient operation as well as the general economic trend and other market conditions. existence of various forms of franchise agreements. you acknowledge that our present and future franchisees operate under a number of forms of franchise agreements and consequently our obligations and rights with respect to our various franchisees may differ materially in certain instances. the existence of different forms or versions of the franchise agreement does not entitle you to benefit from any such difference nor does it operate to alter or amend the agreement of the parties set forth in this agreement. franchise owner may not withhold payments. you agree that you will not on grounds of alleged or actual nonperformance or breach by us of any of our obligations under this agreement withhold payment of any royalty fee advertising fee amounts due to us or any of our affiliates for goods or services purchased by you or any other amounts due to us or any of our affiliates. remedies are cumulative. the rights and remedies of the parties to this agreement are cumulative and not exclusive and no exercise or enforcement by either party of any right or remedy under this agreement shall preclude the exercise or enforcement by such party of any other right or remedy under this agreement or otherwise available at law or in equity to such party. interpretation. all the terms and provisions of this agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the parties. however nothing in this section. may be construed as our consent to the transfer of this agreement or any rights by you. waiver. our failure to insist upon the strict performance of any term covenant or condition contained in this agreement will not constitute or be construed as a waiver or relinquishment of our right to enforce thereafter any such term covenant or condition and such term covenant or condition will continue in full force and effect. for example franchisor acceptance of any payments made by franchisee after a breach of this agreement shall not be nor be construed as a waiver by franchisor of any breach by franchisee of any term covenant or condition of this agreement. litigation expense. if an action at law or suit in equity is brought to establish obtain or enforce any right by either of the parties to this agreement the prevailing party in the suit or action in the trial and appellate courts will be entitled to recover from the non prevailing party reasonable attorneys fees costs and expenses and disbursements incurred in such suit or action. store document of. no third party beneficiaries. this agreement is not intended to benefit any other person or entity except the named parties hereto and no other person or entity shall be entitled to any rights hereunder by virtue of so called third party beneficiary rights or otherwise. binding effect modification. this agreement is binding upon the parties to this agreement and their respective executors administrators personal representatives heirs permitted assigns and successors in interest. no amendment change or modification of this agreement shall be binding on any party unless executed in writing by you and us. entire agreement nature and scope construction. this agreement all exhibits attachments addendums and amendments constitute the entire understanding and agreement between the parties and there are no other oral or written understandings or agreements between us and you relating to the subject matter of this agreement. if required to be signed any state specific addendums are incorporated herein by reference. any representation not specifically contained in this agreement made prior to entering into this agreement does not survive subsequent to the execution of this agreement. we and you have entered into this agreement for the sole purpose of authorizing you to use the system licensed by this agreement in the operation of the franchised business during the term in which those specific items designated by us for sale and use in such locations are offered for sale and use in individual face to face transactions with patrons visiting the franchised business and equivalent telephone or mail transactions accepted as a convenience to that customer group. all consideration being furnished by us to you during the course of performance of this agreement has been determined based on the limited rights and other limitations expressed herein. no other rights have been bargained for or paid for. this provision is intended to define the nature and extent of the parties mutual contractual intent there being no mutual intent to enter into contract relations whether by agreement or by implication other than as set forth in this agreement. the parties further acknowledge that these limitations are intended to achieve the highest possible degree of certainty in the definition of the contract being formed in recognition of the fact that uncertainty creates economic risks for both parties which if not addressed as provided in this agreement would affect the economic terms of this bargain. nothing in this agreement or in any related agreement is intended to disclaim the representations we made in the disclosure document. nothing in this agreement is intended nor shall be deemed to confer any rights or remedies upon any person or legal entity not a party hereto. terminology. in addition to the terms defined elsewhere in this agreement the following terms defined below are incorporated in this agreement by reference and shall be deemed to include all persons who succeed to the interest of the original where applicable the term affiliate means any person who directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries controls is controlled by or is under common control with any person store document of the term dollars means united states dollars and all amounts due under this agreement shall be paid in united states currency the use of the terms includes and including in any provision of this agreement followed by specific examples used shall not be construed to limit application of the provision to only the specific examples used the term person means any natural person corporation partnership trust other entity association or form of organization the term will and shall shall be synonymous and shall be mandatory and not discretionary unless otherwise specifically provided herein and any references to articles or sections refer to articles and sections in this agreement unless specified otherwise. counterparts. this agreement may be executed in one or more original counterparts and all of which when taken together shall be deemed to be one original agreement. the signatures required for execution may be transmitted to the other party via facsimile or a scanned.pdf file sent via email and such signature shall be deemed a duplicate original shall be effective upon receipt by the other party may be admitted in evidence and shall fully bind the party and person making such signature. fully executed copy of this agreement shall be of the same force and effect as the original. offerings. if you are a corporation partnership or other entity and if you intend to offer securities partnership interests or other ownership interests in you through any public or private offering you shall not use any proprietary marks in such public or private offering except to reflect your franchise relationship with us nor shall you misrepresent your relationship with us by any statement or omission of an essential statement. you shall indemnify and hold us harmless from any liability in connection with such offering. nothing in the foregoing shall modify the provisions of article and no such offering shall be made without first complying with any applicable provisions of article. time. time is of the essence of each and every provision of this agreement. force majeure. neither of the parties will be liable for loss or damage or be deemed to be in breach of this agreement if the failure to perform the party obligations results from a transportation shortages inadequate supply of equipment merchandise supplies labor material or energy or the voluntary foregoing of the right to acquire or use any of the foregoing in order to accommodate or comply with the orders requests regulations recommendations or instructions of any government or any department or agency thereof or acts of god in each case being unforeseeable forces which franchisee could not by the exercise of due diligence store document of have avoided provided however that franchisee must i immediately upon the start of the above mentioned act provide written notice to franchisor that it expressly enacts its rights granted under this section and ii use all commercially reasonable efforts to mitigate the effect of the event of force majeure upon its performance and to fulfill its obligations under this agreement. any delay resulting from any of these causes will extend performance accordingly or excuse performance in whole or in part as may be reasonable except that no such cause will excuse payments of amounts owed at the time of such occurrence or payment of the royalty fee and all other amounts due to us and our affiliates thereafter or permit franchisee to permanently close the franchised business. plurals and captions. words in the singular number include the plural when the context requires and vice versa. the table of contents and the captions are inserted only for convenience and are not a part of this agreement or a limitation of the scope of the particular article or section to which each refers. joint and several liability. if you consist of two or more individuals whether in the form of separate individuals or a business entity controlled by the individuals then each individual will be jointly and severally liable under the provisions of this agreement. trademark notice. all trademarks referenced in this agreement are those of their respective owners. no accord or satisfaction. if you pay or we otherwise receive a lesser amount than the full amount provided for under this agreement for any payment due hereunder such payment or receipt may in our sole discretion be applied against the earliest amount due us. in addition if interest or late fees are owed we may in our sole discretion apply any amounts paid to the late fees and interest before such amounts are applied to the principal amount owed. we may accept any check or other payment in any amount without prejudice to our right to recover the entire balance of the amount due or to pursue any other right or remedy. no endorsement or statement by you on any check or payment or in any letter accompanying any check or payment or elsewhere shall constitute or be construed as an accord or satisfaction. article. acknowledgments and representations of franchisee. certain representations and warranties of franchisee. you represent and warrant that the following statements are true and complete as of the effective date a you do not seek to obtain the franchised business for speculative or investment purposes and have no present intention to sell or transfer or attempt to sell or transfer the franchised business except as previously approved by franchisor and subject and conditioned to article of this agreement. you understand and acknowledge the value to the system of uniform and ethical store document of standards of quality appearance and service described in and required by the confidential manual and the necessity of operating the franchised business under the system standards. you represent that you have the capabilities professionally financially and otherwise to comply with our system standards. if you are a corporation limited liability company partnership or other form of entity you are duly incorporated organized or formed and are qualified to do business in the state and any other applicable jurisdiction within which the franchised business is located and you are and shall remain duly organized and in good standing during the term. you represent and warrant that i if you are an individual you are or ii if you are an entity that each of your owners shareholders partners and members are a united states citizen or a lawful resident alien of the united states. all financial and other information that you have provided to us or otherwise made available to us in connection with your application for this franchise is true complete accurate and not intentionally misleading. the execution of this agreement by you will not constitute or violate any other agreement or commitment to which you are a party. any individual executing this agreement on your behalf is duly authorized to do so and the agreement shall constitute your valid and binding obligation and if applicable all of your partners members or shareholders if you are a partnership limited liability company or corporation. you have or if you are a partnership corporation or other entity your partners or principals have carefully read this agreement and all other related documents to be executed by you concurrently or in conjunction with the execution hereof that you have obtained or had the opportunity to obtain the advice of counsel in connection with the execution and delivery of this agreement that you understand the nature of this agreement and that you intend to comply with and be bound by this agreement. i you have read and understand the information and disclosures made in the disclosure document provided to you as acknowledged in section. east you understand and acknowledge that i estimates for initial start up expenses are estimates only and there can be additional start up expenses and ii your sales may differ substantially from any sales provided in item of the disclosure document and there is no assurance that your sales will meet or exceed any sales listed in item of the disclosure document. you have had the opportunity to and have consulted or elected not to consult with your attorney accountant and business advisors before entering into this agreement. you understand and agree that while not applicable in every case our past experience indicates that owner operated restaurants generally perform better than absentee owners with hired managers. the food business is a personal business and is dependent upon your business skill and judgment. this includes your choice of employees. your skill in hiring the right people to work in your franchised business is very important in determining whether people decide to purchase menu items from your franchised business or from another restaurant in the same vicinity. store document of. you understand and agree that ownership of a franchise and the franchised business carries certain risks. these risks include the loss of your initial investment other continued financial losses such as rent payments due under lease obligations and other contractual obligations the loss of your time and energy in starting up and running your franchised business and loss of earnings and investment income from your investment in the franchised business. you understand and agree that the franchised business may make money and may lose money and are entering this business venture with this express understanding. you are not relying upon anything which is not contained within this agreement or the disclosure document in determining and deciding to become a franchisee. notwithstanding the foregoing you understand and agree that the system must not remain static if it is to meet without limitation presently unforeseen changes in technology competitive circumstances demographics populations consumer trends social trends and other market place variables and if it is to best serve the interests of us you and all other franchisees. accordingly you expressly understand and agree that we may from time to time change the components of the system including altering the products programs services methods standards forms policies and procedures of that system abandoning the system altogether in favor of another system in connection with a merger acquisition or other business combination or for other reasons adding to deleting from or modifying those products programs and services which your franchised business is authorized and required to offer modifying or substituting entirely the equipment signage trade dress dcor color schemes and uniform system standards and specifications and all other unit constructions design appearance and operation attributes which you are required to observe under this agreement and abandoning changing improving modifying or substituting the proprietary marks. you expressly agree to comply with any such modifications changes additions deletions substitutions and alterations. you shall accept use and effectuate any such changes or modifications to or substitution of the system as if they were part of the system at the time that this agreement was executed. except as provided herein we shall not be liable to you for any expenses losses or damages sustained by you as a result of any of the modifications contemplated hereby. you represent that neither you nor any of your affiliates officers directors managers members or partners as applicable or funding sources are subject to. executive order identified on the. department of the treasury office of foreign assets control specially designated national and blocked persons list or any terrorist list or other blocked persons list. in addition you represent that you have not received funding from nor are you owned controlled or acting on behalf of the government of any country that is subject to an embargo by the united states any foreign government official political party or international organization and that no foreign government or government official political party or international organization has any financial interest in the franchised business or any monies earned by the franchised business. you represent warrant and agree that you your officers directors managers members or partners as applicable will each at all times conduct themselves in an ethical manner and avoid any activity that might result in a violation of the. foreign corrupt practices act anti terrorism laws or any other applicable anti corruption or bribery laws. additional information respecting franchisee. a you have delivered to us or will deliver concurrent herewith complete and store document of accurate copies of all of your organizational documents including all partnership agreements certificates of partnership articles of organization operating agreements articles or certificates of incorporation by laws and shareholder agreements including all amendments side letters and other items modifying such documents. reserved. acknowledgements of franchisee. a you acknowledge that you have conducted an independent investigation of the business venture contemplated by this agreement and recognize that this business venture involves substantial business risks and will largely depend upon your ability. other than the financial performance representation contained in item of the disclosure document if any we expressly disclaim making and you acknowledge that you have not received or relied on any warranty or guarantee express or implied as to the potential volume profits or success of the franchised business contemplated by this agreement. franchisee initials. you hereby certify that none of our employees no other person speaking on our behalf and no area representative if applicable have i made any oral written visual or other representation agreement commitment claim or statement that stated or suggested any level or range of actual or potential sales costs income expenses profits cash flow or otherwise other than any financial performance representation contained in item of the disclosure document or ii made any oral written visual or other representation agreement commitment claim or statement from which any level or range of actual or potential sales costs income expenses profits cash flow or otherwise might be ascertained related to a cold stone creamery franchise that is different from contrary to or not contained in the cold stone creamery disclosure document or iii made any representation agreement commitment claim or statement to you that is different from contrary to or not contained in the cold stone creamery disclosure document. you acknowledge and agree that we do not make or endorse nor do we allow any of our employees or other persons speaking on our behalf to make or endorse any additional oral written visual or other representation agreement commitment claim or statement that states or suggests any level or range of actual or potential sales costs income expenses profits cash flow or otherwise with respect to a cold stone creamery franchise other than any financial performance representation contained in item of the disclosure document. franchisee initials. you acknowledge that you have received read and understand this agreement and the related exhibits attachments and agreements and that we have afforded you sufficient time and opportunity to consult with advisors selected by you about the potential benefits and risks of entering into this agreement. franchisee initials. you understand that this agreement including any amendments and exhibits contains the entire agreement between the parties concerning the franchised business and that any prior oral or written statements that are not set out in this agreement including any store document of amendments exhibits and attachments will not be binding. you acknowledge and agree that we do not permit any representations agreements commitments claims or statements or approve any changes in this agreement or any of the amendments exhibits and attachments to this agreement except by means of a written amendment or addendum signed by all parties to this agreement. you acknowledge that nothing in this agreement or in any related agreement is intended to disclaim the representations we made in the disclosure document. franchisee initials. you acknowledge receipt of our disclosure document fourteen days prior to the execution of this agreement or your payment of any monies to us or our agent or sooner if required by applicable state law. franchisee initials. you acknowledge that other than what was previously disclosed to you in our disclosure document to which you acknowledge receipt thereof you have not received any financial statements for us or any of our parent or affiliated companies or relied on the financial condition of us or of any of our parent or affiliated companies when making the decision to purchase the franchised business. franchisee initials. you acknowledge as detailed in section. that you must at your own cost and expense use only our designated and approved design architect for the design of your franchised business. franchisee initials. you acknowledge that the following is your area representative if applicable franchisee initials i if an area representative is identified in section. h you make the following representations with respect to the area representative i you have met or spoken to only the area representative ii other than any financial performance representation contained in item of the disclosure document at no time did the area representative make any promises or statements or projections or forecasts or estimates or warranties or representations or other statement or agreement concerning profits or expenses or costs or actual or projected sales of any kind directly or by implication about cold stone creamery restaurants or about the franchised business that we desire to develop under this agreement or about obtaining the confirmed location or about any other matter other than what is contained in the cold stone creamery disclosure document or cold stone creamery restaurant brochure. store document of iii you acknowledge that you have not received any written materials from us or the area representative except for the cold stone creamery brochure and disclosure document and if there are any exceptions to sections. i i iii identify the item number and list the exception here franchisee initials. you acknowledge there have been no other inducements made with any person or entity including the identified area representative encouraging you to purchase the franchised business such as a side deal or other promise or agreement not included in the agreement. franchisee initials. you acknowledge and understand that article covers the use of the cold stone creamery trademark and prohibition on registration of our proprietary marks. you acknowledge the ownership of the proprietary marks by us and you agree that during the term and after its expiration or termination you will not directly or indirectly apply to register register or otherwise seek to use or control or in any way use cold stone creamery or any other of our proprietary marks or any confusingly similar form or variation in any place or jurisdiction either within or outside the united states nor will you assist any others to do so. you further agree that your corporate partnership or other entity name will not include any of the proprietary marks or phrases similar thereto as a part thereof. furthermore you acknowledge and understand that you are prohibited from filing applications for the registration of our trade names used in connection with your franchised business. franchisee initials. you acknowledge and understand that in the event you have registered a trade name or entity name containing our trademarks you will be required to immediately discontinue all further use of the trademark all proprietary marks and any other marks or names confusingly similar thereto in your entity name. furthermore you will take such action as may be required to amend your entity name and affirmatively cancel or terminate and dissolve all fictitious or assumed names or other registrations that contain our proprietary marks. in the event you do not comply and execute any and all instruments and documents necessary to protect and maintain our interests in the proprietary marks we will then have power of attorney to execute any documents necessary to protect and maintain our interests in the proprietary marks. franchisee initials store document of article. submission of agreement the submission of this agreement to you does not constitute an offer and this agreement shall become effective only upon the execution thereof by the parties. this agreement shall not be binding on us unless and until it shall have been accepted and signed by franchisor. signature page follows store document of in witness whereof each party hereto by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind his or her respective party without further consent or approval of any kind has duly executed and delivered this agreement as of the effective date. franchisee a by name title by name title franchisor kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company by name title store document of personal acceptance of sections. and. each of the undersigned individually and personally accepts and agrees to be bound by the provisions of sections. and. of the foregoing franchise agreement. an individual signature date an individual signature date an individual signature date an individual signature date exhibit to the franchise disclosure document franchise agreement transfer store document ii of iii cold stone creamery franchise agreement transfer between kahala franchising. and a store document iii of iii table of contents article. grant of franchise term system standards. article. selection of location construction and relocation. article. operations. article. training assistance and start up materials. article. fees and deposits. article. proprietary marks. article. trade secrets and proprietary information. article. relationship of the parties and indemnification. article. operating standards and duties of franchise owner. article. advertising and promotion. article. accounting procedures and reports. article. transfer. article. renewal. article. default and termination. article. notices. article. construction and enforcement miscellaneous. article. acknowledgments and representations of franchisee. article. submission of agreement. personal acceptance of sections. and. cold stone creamery franchise agreement agreement parties kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company attn legal department. via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona franchisor a telephone number individually and collectively franchisee restaurant number effective date effective date traditional restaurant yes or no restaurant description if non traditional traditional restaurant is a restaurant that is easily accessible by the general public such as a free standing building inline retail shop shopping mall and street front location. traditional cold stone creamery restaurant normally offers a full menu. non traditional restaurant is a cold stone creamery restaurant that is located in a non traditional marketplace as determined by us in our sole discretion such as an airport amusement park sports or entertainment venue train station travel plaza toll roads cafeteria retail store convenience store military base hospital office building movie theater hotel casino kiosk cart or high school or college campus. non traditional restaurant may also be a cold stone creamery restaurant that is colorado branded into another brand restaurant at franchisor sole discretion. non traditional cold stone creamery restaurant normally offers a limited version of the full cold stone creamery menu. to simplify the language in this agreement the terms we us our and the like may be used to refer to the franchisor and the terms you your and the like may be used to refer to the franchisee. the term you as used herein is applicable to one or more persons a corporation partnership trust other entity association or form of organization as the case may be and the singular usage includes the plural masculine neuter feminine and possessive usages. franchisor and franchisee may individually be referred to as a party and collectively referred to as the parties. store document of recitals this agreement is entered into with reference to the following facts and circumstances. we have over a period of time and at considerable expense developed and established a uniform and unique method of operation customer service advertising publicity processes recipes techniques and technical knowledge in connection with the restaurant business specializing in super premium ice cream cakes pies smoothies shakespeare specialty beverages other dessert with frozen confections and other related beverage and food items. these restaurants do business under the trade name cold stone creamery. these cold stone creamery recipes techniques processes and methods constitute our trade secrets. all of our knowledge experience trade secrets processes methods specifications techniques proprietary marks as defined in recital. system standards as defined in section. and information are referred to in this agreement as the system. the system may be changed supplemented improved and further developed by us from time to time. we have owned and issued franchises to others for the operation of franchised restaurants in the united states and in other countries. we have registered and applied for proprietary marks with the united states patent and trademark office and with offices in other countries serving similar functions. these proprietary interests trademarks service marks logos insignias trade names and trade dress are referred to in this agreement as the proprietary marks. we are engaged in the business of licensing the right to use the proprietary marks in connection with the operation and promotion of the system. you understand and recognize that our trade secrets proprietary marks developments and other properties as recited above are of considerable value and it is of importance to us and all of our franchisees to maintain the development of the system in a uniform and distinctive manner allowing you and our other franchisees to enjoy a public image and reputation greater than most single franchisees could establish. you desire to make use of the cold stone creamery trademark and to enjoy the benefits of that mark the other proprietary marks and the system and to establish a cold stone creamery franchise to be operated in accordance with system standards set forth from time to time by us. system standards are set forth in without limitation the confidential ops package which consists of the operations manual operations manual ops toolkit and related printed and electronic documents both now existing and hereinafter developed individually and collectively confidential manual. we are willing to grant you the right to do so under the terms conditions and provisions set forth in this agreement which includes any and all appendices addenda amendments attachments and exhibits. you recognize the necessity and desirability of protecting our reputation goodwill trade secrets and other confidential business information and that disclosure of trade secrets and confidential business information including specifics of the system to any third party will cause irreparable damage and harm to us. agreement the parties agree as follows store document of article. grant of franchise term system standards. franchise grant. we hereby grant to you a cold stone creamery franchise that includes the right to use the system franchised business as provided in this agreement at the following location arena mall facility or center name if applicable street address city state zip code location. location of the franchised business no exclusive territory or other rights. you must operate the franchised business only from the location including any catering services of cold stone creamery menu items you provide. you acknowledge that the cold stone creamery franchise granted under this agreement is non exclusive that we are not granting you any territorial protection or any other exclusive rights and that we directly or through one or more affiliates reserve the right in our sole discretion and without compensating you or seeking your prior approval i to establish and grant to other franchisees or licensees the right to establish a cold stone creamery restaurant or any other business using the proprietary marks the cold stone creamery system or any variation thereof in any location other than the approved location including locations in the immediate vicinity of your location on any terms and conditions that we deem appropriate ii to establish and grant to other franchisees or licensees the right to establish any restaurant concept other than cold stone creamery in any location on any terms and conditions that we deem appropriate including locations in the immediate vicinity of the location iii to sell products identified by the proprietary marks or other trademarks service marks or commercial symbols in any location through any distribution channels including grocery stores convenience stores supermarkets club stores vending machines delivery services and restaurants other than cold stone creamery restaurants and iv to take any other action that we are not expressly prohibited from taking under this agreement. we hereby grant to you during the term of this agreement a non exclusive right and license to operate a single restaurant at the location only according to the system standards and subject to the terms conditions and restrictions contained in this agreement. this agreement is limited to the operation of one traditional restaurant unless otherwise amended and does not grant you the right to buy own or operate additional restaurants. except as expressly limited in this agreement we for ourselves and our affiliates and designees retain all rights with respect to all proprietary marks and the sale of cold stone creamery products anywhere in the world with no compensation or liability to you including the right to a establish and operate or license to any other person or entity the right to establish and operate cold stone creamery restaurants owned or licensed by us at any location store document of. develop market own operate and participate in any other business under the proprietary marks or any other trademarks including trademarks identified in the franchise disclosure document disclosure document and other trademarks we or our affiliates own or have the right to license. develop lease and license the use of at any location trademarks other than the proprietary marks in connection with the operation of a system that offers products or services that are the same as or similar to those offered by us under this agreement on any terms or conditions that we deem advisable in our sole discretion. merge with acquire or be acquired by any other business including a business that competes with your franchised business or acquire and convert any retail stores including retail stores operated by competitors or otherwise operated independently or as part of or in association with any other system or chain whether franchised or corporate owned. distribute sell and license other persons or entities to distribute and sell products through all other channels of distribution including catalog sales telemarketing grocery stores warehouses big box shops specialty shops limited access highway food facilities vending machines and similar automated dispensing systems mobile units off site sales accounts electronic mail internet sales and movie theaters individually and collectively other channels and. implement multi area marketing programs that may allow us or others to solicit or sell to customers anywhere. we also reserve the right to issue mandatory policies to coordinate such multi area marketing programs. term of agreement. a this agreement will commence on the effective date and will expire on either the ten year anniversary of the effective date if you own the property where this franchised business is located or if you enter into a lease directly with the landlord or other third party for the property where this franchised business is located or if you have entered into a sublease with one of our affiliates the expiration of the term of the sublease for the location excluding any extensions or renewal options unless terminated earlier in accordance with article or any other provisions of this agreement renewed in accordance with article or transferred in accordance with article term. system standards. you shall operate the restaurant in accordance with our standards including the following a restaurant design maintenance health and safety and remodeling. types models brands and suppliers of required fixtures furnishings equipment signs materials and supplies. recipes and ingredients menu items and menu design store document of. cooperation with and participation in sales marketing advertising and promotional programs including discount coupons discount gift cards special menu promotions and entering into product and service agreements directly with third party vendors and service providers as required by us and materials and media used in those programs including discontinued use and removal of promotional materials as directed by us. use and display of the proprietary marks. restaurant operations including matters related to the management of the restaurant training of your employees consistent with the system standards and commercial impression of the franchised business to the public. cooperation with and participation consistent with our responses and resolutions in response to customer feedback. cooperation with and participation in i market research and testing and ii product and service development programs i acceptance of our stored value gift cards including gift cards sold at a discount loyalty cards frequency cards gift certificates vouchers and any other similar electronic card and payment programs individually and collectively gift loyalty card credit and debit cards other payment systems check verification services and use of point of sale computer systems you agree to enter into a separate participation agreement with the approved vendor for data processing services. bookkeeping accounting data processing and record keeping systems computer hardware and software connections to the internet or to proprietary networks forms methods formats content and frequency of reports to us of gross sales as defined in article financial performance and condition and providing tax returns and other operating and financial information to us and. conduct and maintain the franchised business and location so as not to distract from or interfere with the integrity of the system individually and collectively system standards. we may in whole or in part change improve update and further develop the system standards from time to time during the term. you shall comply with the updated system standards as directed by us. the operation and maintenance of your restaurant according to the system standards are essential to the well being and vitality of the system and to preserve the goodwill of the proprietary marks for us and for all other franchisees operating under the system. it is critical to the cold stone creamery system for all restaurants operating under the cold stone creamery system to present a uniform and professional image to cold stone creamery customers regardless of which location the customer visits. any information regarding the operation of the restaurant will be considered a mandatory system standard unless it is clear from the express language of our communication that the information is merely optional or is intended by us as a suggestion rather than a requirement. you agree that system standards constitute binding provisions of this agreement as if they were an integral part of this agreement. store document of article. selection of location construction and relocation. location selection procedures. you are ultimately responsible for the selection of the location. we will not have any liability to you with respect to your selection of the location any assistance we provide you in making your selection our recommendation of any location or a third party to assist you in selecting a location or our allowing you to move forward on any location. you agree that your selection of the location will be based on your own independent investigation of the suitability of the location. lease and purchase approval. if you intend to lease the location for your franchised business the lease will be subject to our prior limited review and acknowledgment so that we can confirm that certain lease terms are incorporated into the lease. you must provide us at least thirty days prior to executing the lease a copy of the lease and details relating to square footage rent per square foot the term of the lease and either confirmation that such other terms as we reasonably require are incorporated into the lease or that you and the landlord agree to incorporate the lease addendum to lease agreement as an exhibit to the lease. you or your attorney shall be responsible for negotiating the terms of the lease which shall be subject to our final limited review and acknowledgment. if you do not submit all of the required documents to us we will not allow you to move forward with your lease. we have no liability to you regarding the terms or negotiations of the lease. if prior to executing the lease you or your attorney request a full review of your lease including any and all exhibits attached thereto and we or our designated affiliate review your entire lease and exhibits and provide to you or your attorney its review of the entire lease and suggested changes to the lease lease review you must pay a lease review fee as defined in section. to compensate for time and effort in reviewing the lease. the lease review is optional and only completed by us or our designated affiliate at your or your attorney request. the lease review fee is due only in the event that you or your attorney request us or our affiliate to complete a lease review. each lease must contain the required lease terms set forth in the lease addendum to lease agreement and must specifically state that we are a third party beneficiary of the lease. if we cure any default by you under the lease any amounts that we pay to cure the default will be payable by you to us on demand together with interest thereon at the lesser rate of one and one half percent or the maximum rate that does not violate applicable state usury laws default rate per month from the date we make such payment. you acknowledge and agree that on the earlier of thirty days after i you receive a fully executed copy of your lease for the location of your franchised business or ii you open your franchised business to the public you must provide a fully executed copy of your lease for the location to us. failure to timely provide us with a fully executed copy of the lease will result in a default under this agreement. if you intend to purchase the location for your franchised business the terms of such purchase shall be subject to our prior approval and you must provide us at least thirty days prior to executing the purchase agreement a copy of the purchase agreement and details relating to square footage price per square foot and such other terms as we reasonably require. store document of you acknowledge and understand that our confirmation that you may move forward with any specific location lease or purchase agreement does not in any way guarantee or ensure the success or profitability of the franchised business or the conformity of the location lease or purchase agreement to applicable laws and such confirmations are only for our own benefit. construction. a you must at your sole cost and expense construct furnish make improvements to and equipment if necessary the franchised business at the location selected by you and meeting our minimum site requirements in accordance with plans and specifications approved by us or our third party approved architect if applicable. our approval of plans is solely for complying with our system standards and not for determining compliance with codes ordinances and other legal requirements including the americans with disabilities act ada or any requirements under the lease for your location. you are solely responsible for ensuring that your location conforms to all codes and ordinances including the ada and all lease specific requirements. you must at your sole cost and expense use our designated and approved third party design architect design architect to prepare the initial design drawings for any construction alterations or improvements as applicable for your franchised business. the design architect must provide us with one set of the design drawings including landscaping and parking spaces if applicable which are the detailed plans and specifications plans for your franchised business. we will provide you with a copy of the plans upon our approval of the plans. you must also at your sole cost and expense retain a licensed architect of record to prepare the permitted construction set of drawings for any construction alterations or improvements. the permitted construction set of drawings must be submitted to us for our files prior to the start of construction alterations or improvements. in addition you must obtain the appropriate construction documents and all mechanical plumbing electrical and architectural plans must be sealed and stamped as we may require even if local laws in the jurisdiction where your restaurant is located do not require same. any material modifications to the approved plans must be submitted to us for approval and you will not undertake any construction alterations or improvements until such modifications have been approved by us. approval of such modifications does not constitute any representation by us of compliance with applicable zoning laws building codes or other laws. you will be solely responsible for the cost and expense of obtaining all necessary governmental construction permits and licenses and you must at your sole cost and expense comply with all laws zoning ordinances rules and regulations of any governmental agencies that may govern any construction alterations or improvements of the franchised business in accordance with the approved plans. we will have the right but are not required to meet with the design architect and to inspect any construction alterations or improvements during its course to ensure that the provisions of this section. are being observed and you agree to allow our authorized representatives at any and all times while construction alterations or improvements are in progress to meet with the licensed architect and general contractor and enter onto the location for this purpose. if we determine in good faith that the provisions of this section. are not being observed you will at your sole cost and expense immediately take all necessary corrective action. you must at your sole cost and expense use a general contractor that is licensed and if applicable registered in the state and local jurisdiction where your restaurant is store document of located for any and all construction alterations and improvements. the general contractor must have prior experience in the construction alterations and improvement of quick service restaurants. you acknowledge that the design and appearance of the cold stone creamery restaurant is part of the system and that uniformity is essential to the system. therefore you agree that after the restaurant has been constructed altered or improved you will not make any material changes to the building plan or design or its appearance without our prior written consent and you will at your sole cost and expense maintain the interior and exterior dcor of the restaurant in a first class condition and in such manner as we may reasonably prescribe from time to time. in addition to any remodeling required by us upon the transfer of the franchised business and upon the renewal of this agreement as set forth in articles and respectively you will upon thirty days prior notice from us and at your sole cost and expense remodel and make all alterations and improvements in and to your franchised business as reasonably determined by us to reflect the then current cold stone creamery system specifications standards format image and appearance. certificate of occupancy for your franchised business must be submitted to us approximately six days prior to the day you open your franchised business to the public and as otherwise requested by us throughout the term. signage. you will acquire repair and replace as necessary and maintain in a first class condition throughout the term signs for advertising and identifying the franchised business as a cold stone creamery restaurant. all signs must be in accordance with the system standards specifications and any local governing body i city or county governments as well as any other applicable laws including the americans with disabilities act ada and exterior signage must be the maximum size allowed by the landlord and local governing body. you acknowledge that quality control is essential to protect and promote our proprietary marks standards and uniform image and you shall acquire all signs only from approved suppliers. in addition you shall prominently display on all communications forms advertising business stationery and business cards and in a sign easily visible to consumers at the franchised business the following words independently owned and operated. relocation. a if you desire to relocate the franchised business you may request our consent upon the following conditions i not less than sixty days prior to the desired date of relocation unless prior notice is impractical because of a required relocation due to a third party or our request in which event notice shall be made as soon as possible you must make a written request for consent to relocate describing the reasons for the relocation and providing details respecting any proposed new location. ii within twenty one days after receiving your written request we shall advise you in writing if the proposed new location meets our minimum real estate site requirements as provided in section. and if you have our authorization to proceed with the store document of relocation. in the event of our denial to proceed with the relocation you may request an alternative proposed new location pursuant to the provisions of this section. iii the term will not be extended in connection with the requested relocation. at the time you request to relocate the franchised business you must also meet each of the following requirements i you must not be in default under this agreement or any other agreement or note then in effect between us or you and any affiliate of ours and no event shall have occurred that with the giving of notice the passage of time or both would constitute a default under this agreement ii you must neither have received more than three notices of default or breach during the term nor more than two notices of default or breach during the five years immediately preceding the effective date of the proposed relocation iii the equipment fixtures and signage used in connection with the operation of the franchised business must either meet our then existing system specifications and system standards or you must agree within a timeframe required by us to replace or refurbish such items and otherwise modify the methods of operation of the franchised business at your cost and expense in order to comply with our system specifications and system standards then applicable to new franchise owners and iv you shall have paid to us a relocation fee as defined in section. if we approve the relocation of your franchised business i you and we must execute an amendment to this agreement indicating the address for your relocated franchised business and ii you must open your franchised business at the new location within thirty days after you close your franchised business at the current location. provided that you comply with all of the terms and conditions set forth in this agreement including this section. during the period of time between the closure of your franchised business at the current location and the opening of the franchised business at the approved relocation address you will not owe the royalty fee as defined in section. restricted use of restaurant location. you may not wholly or partially sublet the location without our prior written consent. the location may be used only for the operation of a cold stone creamery restaurant in compliance with this agreement and the system standards. you shall not conduct other businesses or activities at the location without our prior written consent. not applicable. article. operations. commencing operations. you agree to start operating your cold stone creamery restaurant at the location as of the effective date. you acknowledge that before starting operations you must at your own store document of expense do the following in addition to any other requirements set forth in this agreement a complete a food safety training program at your sole cost and expense. we will accept the certificate for the required program through your local county or state health department or any other nationally recognized food safety program. you must provide us with a copy of your certificate prior to commencing training. successfully complete the training program described in section. purchase lease or otherwise acquire from the list of approved sources provided by us all the signage supplies equipment fixtures inventory and other items necessary to operate the cold stone creamery franchised business and. obtain liability insurance in accordance with the requirements described in section. and provide to us evidence that such insurance has been obtained. prior to starting operations of the franchised business you must notify us that you have satisfied all requirements to begin operations and provide us with such documents as we may reasonably request that show your compliance with all such requirements. if you do not begin operations of your restaurant at the location as of the effective date then we may terminate this agreement by giving you notice to that effect. supplies and promotional materials rollouts. you agree to sell only those menu items products and services authorized under the terms of this agreement and as specified in the confidential manual and you shall use only supplies and ingredients in making those menu items that are in compliance with the standards as set forth in the confidential manual or other documents provided by or approved by us as they presently exist or may exist in the future. you shall purchase all such services supplies and ingredients only from approved vendors and utilize approved distributor as specified in the documents provided by or approved by us as they presently exist or may exist in the future. you must purchase promotional materials containing the proprietary marks including stationery business cards promotional and advertising materials and similar items from suppliers approved by us except that we must first approve all such promotional and advertising materials before you use them and all such printed materials containing any of the proprietary marks shall be accompanied by the words independently owned and operated. additionally during the term you agree to participate in any rollout of new products and suppliers as defined in section. fixtures furnishings and equipment. unless otherwise approved by us in writing you will acquire repair and replace as necessary and maintain in a first class condition throughout the term fixtures furnishings and equipment to be used in the operation of your franchised business that is in accordance with the system standards specifications set forth by us in the confidential manual or other documents provided by or approved by us as they presently exist or may exist in the future and with applicable laws including without limitation including the americans with disabilities act ada and procure the fixtures furnishings and equipment from suppliers or vendors previously approved in writing by us. store document of. online presence. you may not maintain a website software application an appendix application social media account including an account group or page on facebook flickr foursquare google instagram linkedin pinterest snapchat tumblr twitter youtube vine vkontakte or weibo or otherwise maintain a presence or advertise on the internet or any other public computer network individually and collectively site in connection with the franchised business without our prior written approval which we may withhold in our sole discretion. if we grant you written approval you agree to submit to us for approval before use true and correct printouts of all site pages you propose to use in connection with the franchised business. you understand and agree that our right of approval of all such site pages is necessitated by the fact that such site pages will include and be inextricably linked with our proprietary marks. if we approve your use of a site you may only use site pages that we have approved. your site must conform to all online presence requirements policies and procedures per our system standards. you agree to provide all information regarding your online presence that we require. if we grant approval for a site you may not use any of the proprietary marks on the site except as we expressly permit. you may not post any of our proprietary confidential or copyrighted material or information on the site without our prior written permission. if you wish to modify your approved site all proposed modifications must also receive our prior written approval. you explicitly understand that you may not post on any site whether yours or someone else any material in which a third party has any direct or indirect ownership interest including video clips photographs sound bites copyrighted text trademarks or service marks or any other text or image which any third party may claim intellectual property or other rights indiana if we grant approval you agree to list on the site any website and social media account maintained by us and any other information we require in the manner we dictate. you agree to obtain our prior written approval for any internet domain name home page address and uniform resource locator. the requirement for our prior approval set forth in this section. will apply to all activities on the internet or other communications network to be conducted by you except that you may maintain one or more mail addresses and may conduct individual mail communications without our prior written approval. you agree to obtain our prior approval as provided above if you propose to send advertising to multiple addressees via mail or text messages. you may not use a site to represent that the site is an official account application page or group of or video produced by us or you are the owner of the cold stone creamery brand. on any site you use in connection with the franchised business you must affirmatively state a that you are a franchisee and the opinion and content being expressed are your own and not that of the cold stone creamery brand and the location of your franchised business. continuing working capital requirement. you must have fifteen thousand dollars in working capital at the time you open your franchised business. article. training assistance and start up materials. training program. we will provide up to two natural persons individually and collectively trainees with a training program designed to inform the participants as to the fundamentals of operating the franchised business prior to your opening of the franchised business. at minimum one store document of of the two natural persons must have an ownership interest in the franchised business. the remaining position may be filled by a natural person with an ownership interest in or management responsibility for the franchised business. the training program is made up of the in store training which is approximately eighty hours and new owner training which is approximately forty hours collectively training program. you will be solely responsible for all transportation costs food lodging and other personal expenses incurred by you and your employees in connection with the training program. the new owner training will be conducted either online or in person at our sole discretion. if the new owner training is conducted in person it will be at the franchisor training and education center in scottsdale arizona or at such other location as we may designate at our sole discretion and the in store training will be conducted at a training store in arizona or such other location as we may designate at our sole discretion. you acknowledge that adequate knowledge regarding the operation of the franchised business is essential to the growth of your franchise and to the promotion of the system. notwithstanding the foregoing franchisor has the right to require franchisee and or its manager to attend additional training and pay the additional training fee as defined below as provided for in this section. and section. in the event franchisee is not operating the franchised business pursuant to franchisor systems standards. employee training. you acknowledge that the employees of your cold stone creamery franchised business are an integral and important part of the franchised business as they will have substantial contact with customers. you alone are responsible and acknowledge that we have no direct or indirect control and no right or authority for the hiring firing training supervising setting the terms and conditions of employment including employee tasks and work schedules compensation of your employees or maintaining employment records for the safety of your employees and for your employees compliance with the system standards. the system standards are in place to protect our interests in the system and not for exercising any control over you your employees or your franchised business. you must ensure that your employees who have direct interaction with the public are able to speak and read english and any other language that may be required to adequately meet the public needs in your franchised business. additional programs continuing assistance. we will provide one of our representatives to come to your restaurant during opening week for up to five days at our expense to work with you or your manager on operating your restaurant. we may in the future request that trainees participate in refresher or additional training programs. we may also hold an annual conference to introduce new products discuss sales and marketing techniques personnel training advertising programs merchandising procedures and other subjects. you may be charged a nominal registration fee for these programs and you will be solely responsible for the cost of transportation food lodging and other expenses incurred by trainees at any such program. attendance at these additional training programs and conferences is mandatory. they will be held in the metropolitan phoenix arizona area or at other locations in the united states chosen by us at our sole discretion. in addition to the initial training available under section. we shall provide such periodic evaluations or inspections as we deem appropriate utilizing our field representatives who may visit the franchised business from time to time. the frequency and duration of such store document of visits to a franchised business by our representatives shall be in our sole discretion. any such evaluation or inspection is not intended to exercise any control over your employees or the daily operation of your franchised business. in addition we will be available on an ongoing basis at our offices for consultation and guidance with respect to the operation and management of the franchised business. in addition to the confidential manual we may but are not required to from time to time provide you with additional materials relating to the franchised business. area representatives. we may retain the services of an independent third party area representative area representative to represent us in the area in which the restaurant is located and perform some or all of the services we provide under this agreement. the services the area representative may perform could include i assistance in location selection and evaluating and confirming that the location meets our minimum site requirements ii advice and guidance regarding lease negotiations iii assistance in opening new cold stone creamery locations iv assistance with training on the approved pos system as defined in section. a assistance with marketing advice virgin islands periodic quality service cleanliness and experience qsce evaluations vii assistance with collection of the various sums due to us from cold stone creamery franchisees and viii coordination with other cold stone creamery franchisees in your area and general supervision and monitoring of your franchised business on our behalf. you agree in advance to our delegation to an area representative of some or all of our obligations and assignment to an area representative of some or all of our rights under this agreement. you agree that we may require you to submit to an area representative any reports you are required to submit to us. upon our request you will provide the area representative with access inspection and audit rights to the same extent we have those rights under this agreement. you are not a third party beneficiary of any agreement between us and any area representative. if we have designated an area representative for your restaurant as of the effective date the name and contact information of the area representative is shown in section. h we reserve the right in our sole discretion to remove any area representative in your area at any time and to appoint any other area representative for your area. we have no obligation to appoint an area representative in the area in which your restaurant is located and we have no obligation to appoint a new area representative after we have removed an area representative. you acknowledge that area representatives and their owners and employees may not contractually bind us without our express written authorization. you further acknowledge no area representative has the authority to i enter into agreements or execute any agreements on our behalf or ii bind us in any way without our prior written consent. unless expressly authorized and agreed to by us in writing we disavow any agreements whether verbal or written entered into by an area representative that in any way attempts to bind us. in any litigation or arbitration proceeding you agree to waive any claim or defense that an area representative is our express or implied agent and such an assertion by you constitutes a material default under this agreement. confidential manual. to protect the reputation and goodwill of the system and to maintain the uniform standards of operation under the proprietary marks you must conduct your business in accordance with our confidential manual. the confidential manual is confidential and remains our property. store document of the operations manual is available to franchisee via the franchisee portal at https portal.kahalamgmt.com. in the event franchisee desires to receive a hard copy of the operations manual then franchisee shall submit such request in writing to training kahalamgmt.com. upon such request a hard copy of the operations manual will be mailed to franchisee via regular mail within approximately forty five days thereafter. so that you may benefit from new knowledge gained by us as to improved techniques in the operation of the franchised business we may from time to time revise amend restate or supplement the content of the confidential manual or other documents provided by or approved by us as they presently exist or may exist in the future. you will at all times ensure that your copy of the confidential manual is kept current and up to date. in the event of a dispute regarding any of the content of the confidential manual the master copies maintained by us at our corporate office will control. computer systems debit and credit card processing. a prior to the opening of your restaurant you will be required to acquire to maintain and to exclusively use an approved cash register computer system pos system during the operation of the franchised business. you and your employees must complete training for the pos system as we require and you will be required to use the pos system to produce sales reports keep inventory control and post sales tax refunds credits and allowances and submit that information to us immediately upon our request. you are required to obtain high speed always on internet connection service for your pos system. if high speed always on internet is not available in your area dialect up internet access may be used until high speed always on service becomes available in your area. the pos system must be configured so that we will have remote access to the information and data stored in the pos system which may include inventory information. this access will allow us to exchange collect data and other information on such bases as we will communicate to you from time to time. you will be required to maintain the pos system in good working order at all times and to upgrade or update the pos system during the term as we may require from time to time. it will be your responsibility to enter into contracts for the maintenance upgrades and updates to the pos system with an approved supplier of such services identified by us on the list of approved vendors and distributors or other notification to you from us advising of suppliers for your market area. you shall also be required to own a personal computer or similar device with access to the internet that allows you to report your gross sales as defined in section. online send and receive mails with us and receive online orders. all cold stone creamery franchisees are required to participate in online ordering and delivery programs which includes entering into one or more participation agreement with one of our affiliates and or other approved vendor for remote online order processing services and delivery services under the terms conditions and fees established by such vendor for the purpose of developing implementing using maintaining supporting updating and or upgrading technologies in connection with the franchise system including web based and or mobile applications and websites. we may charge collect for a third party or require you to remit to a third party amounts used to develop and use technologies within the franchise system. this may include amounts paid to third party delivery service platforms and aggregators. to provide for the inevitable but unpredictable nature to changes to technological needs and opportunities you agree and acknowledge that we shall have the right to establish in writing new standards and fees for developing implementing using maintaining supporting updating and or upgrading technologies in connection with the franchised system. there is no contractual limitation on the frequency and cost of this obligation. we may https nam.safelinks.protection.outlook.com ?url https a folio fportal.kahalamgmt.com folio data county clltuller kahalamgmt.com county county confer dd d county folio folio county county folio ea armed forces europe b east edward county ef county county county cunknown ctwfpbgzsb d eyjwijoimc wljawmdailcjqijoiv lumziilcjbtii ik hawwilcjxvci minnesota d county sdata ea bpqj pb yyxodzjw east io zxatjk isbywoc wro d reserved mailto training kahalamgmt.com. store document of require you to upgrade the hardware and software including but not limited to your operating system as reasonably necessary to provide reports and information required by us. you are required to accept debit and credit cards and gift loyalty cards from consumers at the franchised business. you will be required to acquire and maintain an approved debit credit and gift loyalty card processing system to use during the operation of the franchised business. additionally you must utilize our approved third party gift loyalty payment card processor for processing all such gift loyalty card transactions including entering into a gift card participation agreement with one of our affiliates or its successors or assigns or other approved vendor for the gift loyalty card processing services. the payment card industry pci requires all companies that process store or transmit credit card information to protect the cardholders information by complying with the pci data security standard pci dss. therefore as a franchisee who accepts credit cards you are required to be pci compliant by following and adhering to pci dss which includes ensuring that your pos system back office computer if supplied and any other device that is plugged into the network is only used for business purposes. you are also required to complete an annual questionnaire and quarterly network pci scans and install a network firewall appliance for logging tracking reporting and security assessment. you are also required to validate with franchisor that your store is pci compliant. to show such validation you must send us your passing certificate showing your store is pci compliant and franchisor may in its sole discretion require you to install a particular type of firewall hardware and or software. you are also required to verify that you have a pci compliant firewall appliance installed at your location if you process credit cards via high speed internet connectivity. we require your franchised business pos system including terminals computers and software to be in compliance with the pci dss at all times. the pci dss is often updated and you are required to obtain and comply with all updated standards. you must also be pci compliant in order to obtain cyber liability data breach insurance coverage. article. fees and deposits you agree to pay each of the following amounts to us via a lump sum with each and every amount being non refundable because of our investment in time and money in addition to any other benefits conferred upon you including processing your application reviewing your documents and providing you with relevant information unless otherwise expressly specified below in accordance with the provisions set forth in this article. notwithstanding your designation to the contrary we have the sole discretion to apply any of your payments in part or in whole to any of your indebtedness to us. not applicable. royalty fee and surcharge. for the period of time commencing on the later of the effective date or the date the franchised business opens to the public and for the duration of the term you must pay to us a weekly royalty fee equal to six percent of total gross sales as defined below royalty fee. if we or the landlord of the location require you to remodel your franchised business in such a way that your franchised business including catering stops offering items to the public or if there is a disaster at your franchised business such as a fire flood or damage caused by an act of god that requires you to temporarily close your franchised business you are not required to pay the royalty fee during the period of time of such temporary closure provided store document of you provide us or our authorized representative with notice of such temporary closure as soon as reasonably possible but in no event more than twenty four hours after such closure begins. notwithstanding the above all amounts owed to us under this agreement prior to the temporary closure shall still be fully due and payable. the temporary closure of your franchised business shall not exceed ninety days but may be extended on a case by case basis at our sole discretion and with our prior written approval. in our sole discretion we may charge in addition to the royalty fee a surcharge of up to ten dollars per week if your franchised business is located in a state that imposes additional reporting requirements on a franchisor surcharge. the royalty fee and applicable surcharge shall be due and payable no later than monday of each week which day may be modified by us without prior notice to or approval from you for the week ending on the preceding tuesday in which applicable gross sales as defined below were earned from the franchised business. the weekly royalty fee and applicable surcharge shall be paid by electronic funds transfer as detailed below. for the period of time commencing on the later of the effective date or the date the franchised business opens to the public and for the duration of the term you are required to report gross sales to our designated accounting office which as of the effective date is via the internet at http franchisee.kahalamgmt.com as set forth in section. nothing herein shall prevent franchisor from electronically polling franchisee pos system restaurant management software and financial records or similar tools thereto daily or more frequently by electronic or other remote means and franchisee hereby grants franchisor authority to do so. you shall be required to establish a depository account as defined in section. at the time you execute this agreement as set forth in section. payment of the royalty fee advertising fee as defined in section. and all other fees due under this agreement to us shall be made via electronic transfer of funds from the depository account. to accomplish this electronic transfer of funds from the depository account you must complete sign and deliver to us and maintain for the duration of the term a current electronic funds transfer authorization in a form that we provide. as used in this agreement gross sales means all sales money or things of value received or receivable directly or indirectly by franchisee on account of the franchised business less applicable sales taxes and any properly documented refunds credits and allowances given by you to customers in accordance with the system standards but without deducting any of your income taxes costs and other expenses. all sales made from catering services must be included in the gross sales. advertising fee. a you must pay to us or directly into a national advertising fund or also any regional advertising funds as designated by us at our sole discretion individually and collectively advertising fund a weekly advertising fee of three percent of the gross sales for the preceding week advertising fee. upon thirty days notice by us to you we may unilaterally increase the advertising fee from its current level not to exceed four percent of your weekly gross sales. the advertising fee shall be due and payable with the royalty fee under section. the advertising fee is our property and may be deposited by us into our general operating account. store document of. the advertising fund will be used for marketing advertising production and media expenses to promote the cold stone creamery name system products and services. we are entitled to deduct free of charge the following from the advertising fund i reimbursement of expenses overhead and employee salaries for services provided and ii rent for office space provided to the advertising fundamental we have no fiduciary obligation to you in connection with the operation of any advertising fundamental no interest on an unexpended advertising fee shall be imputed or otherwise charged for the benefit of or payable to you. you understand and agree that the only obligations we have regarding the collection and spending of the advertising fee or the administration of the advertising fund are the express contractual obligations in this section. we are not acting as a trustee fiduciary agent or in any other special capacity. we do not give any representation or warranty regarding the quality or effectiveness of the advertising and marketing activities funded by the advertising fee or of the advertising fund and we will have no liability to you with respect to how these funds are spent. two percent of your gross sales is deposited into the national advertising fund and if a cooperative exists where your franchised business is located the remaining one percent of your gross sales is deposited into the regional advertising fund for your cooperative if no cooperative exists where your franchised business is located your franchised business will be considered a single store cooperative and you must contribute the remaining one percent of your gross sales to the regional advertising fund for your store. your own local marketing and advertising should be developed to maximize your particular customer base. cooperative advertising. a we encourage the formation and operation of franchisee cooperative advertising associations each an association. each association will help coordinate advertising marketing efforts and programs and attempt to maximize the efficient use of local advertising media. if an association is formed for your region you must contribute financially to the association as required by us. failure to do so will be deemed a breach of this agreement and you may also in franchisor sole discretion lose your right to vote as to decisions regarding advertising and marketing efforts and programs. upon our request you will assist in establishing an association or in deciding how to allocate all or part of any fund contribution we elect to distribute to the association. we will decide in our sole discretion whether to make contributions from the fund to an association and how much to contribute. we reserve the right to establish general standards concerning the operation of an association advertising agencies retained by an association and advertising programs conducted by an association. notwithstanding anything to the contrary no association decision will be made or advertising collections spent without our prior written approval. not applicable. depository account payment procedures. you are required to establish at the time you execute this agreement and maintain for the duration of the term a depository account depository account at a bank or other federally insured financial institution depository. you will initially deposit no less than three thousand dollars into the depository account and are required to maintain a balance store document of of at least three thousand dollars in the depository account at all times during the term by replenishing the depository account to at minimum three thousand dollars after any withdrawals. we shall not be responsible for any bank service charges incurred by you which result from the withdrawal of funds from your depository account. on wednesday of each week you must submit a report to us regarding the weekly period which ended on the preceding tuesday including details on gross sales and other statistical data as provided in this agreement confidential manual or as otherwise specified from time to time by us. we will withdraw funds electronically on monday of each week from the depository account. the withdrawals are based upon the figures you report and constitute the royalty fee and advertising fee as described in sections. and. if you do not submit a report on any wednesday we may estimate the royalty fee and advertising fee based upon prior reports and withdraw the estimated amounts up to the entire three thousand dollars. we will return or credit back to you in our sole discretion any overage within thirty days after our receipt of your report. we shall not be responsible to you for any interest charges for any overage collected due to your failure to timely report your sales. you shall instruct the depository to disburse each week to our designated bank via electronic funds transfer by the close of business on monday or preceding banking business day if monday is a bank holiday the weekly royalty fee and advertising fee and other fees due for that week which week shall end on the preceding sunday. the days of the week specified above may be modified by us without prior notice to or approval from you. we will also withdraw the monthly pos help desk phone support maintenance fee as defined in section. from the depository account on the last thursday of each month. under no circumstances shall such access to the depository account be deemed control or joint control of the depository account by us. subject to reasonable advance notice for non recurring payment amounts we have the right to debit your depository account or any other depository account you have with us according to the terms of your electronic funds transfer authorization for any of the payments described in this agreement. if you do not pay all amounts due by the due date we may suspend our and our affiliates services and support until your payment default is cured. repeated failure to pay all amounts when due whether or not the defaults are subsequently cured may be cause for termination under article. you shall pay us fifty dollars for each electronic funds transfer attempted from your depository account pursuant to this section. that is returned for non sufficient funds. you shall also reimburse us for all other costs and expenses incurred by us in collecting or attempting to collect funds due to us from the depository account for example without limitation charges for non sufficient funds uncollected funds or other discrepancies in deposits or maintenance of the depository account balance in accordance with the terms hereof. the depository account shall be established and maintained solely for the purposes set forth in this section. and any other fees authorized under this agreement and any other agreements between you and us or any of our affiliates. lease review fee. if you request us or one of our designated affiliates to complete a lease review you are required to pay us or our designated affiliate a lease review fee in the amount of two thousand store document of five hundred dollars lease review fee for reviewing and providing comments to your proposed lease. lease guarantee fee. if in order to obtain the lease agreement for the location of your franchised business the landlord requires you to obtain a lease guarantee and we or one of our affiliates agree to serve as such guarantor you will pay us or our affiliate a fee in the amount of ten percent of the total amount of the rental obligations being guaranteed under the lease during its term up to a maximum fee of ten thousand dollars lease guarantee fee. the lease guarantee fee will be due and payable upon our or our affiliate execution of the applicable lease guarantee agreement with the landlord. neither we nor any of our affiliates are required to serve as a guarantor of your lease for the location of your franchised business rather the decision of whether to serve as a guarantor shall be made in our sole discretion. in the event that you request us or our affiliate to either agree to be the tenant under the lease or execute a separate guarantee to the lease and you pay the required lease guarantee fee you agree and acknowledge that payment of the lease guarantee fee shall not in any manner be deemed as an insurance policy which limits your liability in connection with the franchised business including any and all financial liability under the sublease or lease related to the location. you further agree and acknowledge that our or our affiliate agreement to act as tenant or guarantor under the lease and your payment of the lease guarantee fee to us or our affiliate does not result in the assumption or transfer of your liability in connection with the franchised business by or to us or our affiliate. additional persons training fee. the training of two individuals is included in the fee as set forth in section. if you desire to have more than two people attend the training program you must pay an additional training fee of one thousand dollars for each such person to attend the in store training and an additional seven hundred fifty dollars for each such person to attend the new owner training individually and collectively additional persons training fee see section. additional training fee. if after attending the training program you desire to receive additional training we will provide additional training time to you for a fee of three hundred dollars per person per day. such additional training will be at a time reasonably agreed to by you and us and will be conducted at franchisor headquarters online or such other location as we may designate in our sole discretion. you will be solely responsible for all transportation costs and expenses food lodging and other personal costs and expenses incurred by you and your employees in connection with this additional training. document administration fee. document administration fee of five hundred dollars document administration fee is payable to us when we must prepare an amendment to your franchise documents see section. g store document of. renewal franchise fee. renewal franchise fee of fifty percent of the then current initial franchise fee not including any discounts or reductions renewal franchise fee is payable to us when you renew this agreement see section.i transfer franchise fee. a transfer franchise fee and other applicable initial fees as set forth in the consent to transfer and release agreement executed contemporaneously herewith and to which franchisee is also a party are payable to us when you sign this agreement. if following the effective date franchisee desires to complete a full transfer as defined in section.a of this agreement we will require the potential transferee as defined in section. to pay us seventeen thousand five hundred dollars transfer franchise fee as one of the conditions for franchisee to receive franchisor consent for such transfer as required in section. relocation fee. relocation fee of five hundred dollars relocation fee is payable to us when you sign the amendment to your franchise agreement for your relocation see section. not applicable. annual meeting registration fee. if we hold an annual meeting meeting the meeting may be held at various locations throughout the united states and or online as we may designate in our sole discretion. because the planning and funding of the meeting must be done well in advance and requires a substantial financial commitment we have the right to debit your depository account for up to one thousand dollars for the meeting registration fee at any time sixty to ninety days prior to the first day of the meeting. this fee may be debited from your account even if you do not attend the meeting. you will also be solely responsible for all costs incidental to attending the meeting. if you do not attend the meeting we will make available to you one full set of the substantive materials that were presented at the meeting. late report interest late charge non sufficient funds fee breaching royalties draft draw charge. if you fail to submit to us any financial statements forms reports or records required to be provided under this agreement by its due date including your weekly gross sales report for calculating your royalty fee and advertising fee you must pay to us a late report charge of one hundred dollars per week or part thereof. if any fees or assessments due under this agreement including the royalty fee and advertising fee are not paid when due interest shall accrue on the late payment from the date payment is due until the date payment is made at the default rate which amount plus a late charge of five percent of the unpaid amount or one hundred dollars whichever is greater shall be added to each late payment. for any payments made by you to us under this store document of agreement which are returned for non sufficient funds of a processed check you shall be charged a non sufficient funds fee of twenty five dollars per occurrence. pursuant to section. for each electronic funds transfer that is attempted from the depository account but returned for non sufficient funds you shall be charged a fifty dollars non sufficient funds fee per occurrence. franchisor has the absolute right to charge franchisee the greater of three times the fixed royalty fee or if on a percentage royalty fee the royalty fee will be increased up to eighteen percent of gross sales with respect to any period during which franchisee is in breach or default of its his her obligations under this agreement. the royalty fees paid or owing to franchisor with respect to the period during which franchisee is in breach or default are referred to as breaching royalties. breaching royalties will be charged for a minimum fourteen day period regardless of the length of the actual breach or default. if you fail to provide us any necessary information or documentation with respect to our practice of drawing drafts against your bank accounts you must pay us a draft draw charge in the amount of one hundred dollars per day that that failure continues. if as a result of your failure to remit payments required under any provision of this agreement we retain an attorney or a collection agency to collect such payments you must pay all collection costs and expenses including reasonable attorneys fees and expenses whether or not legal proceedings are initiated. our rights under this section. are in addition to any other rights or remedies that we may have as a result of your default under this agreement. audit fees. for the purpose of this section. we have the right at any time during business hours and with or without prior notice to you to inspect and audit or cause to be inspected and audited the business records cash control devices bookkeeping and accounting records sales and income tax records and returns and other records of the franchised business and your entity books and records. you hereby grant us access to any computers utilized by you for such purposes and we will have the ability at all times via modem to obtain daily and weekly sales reports and other financial records that the pos system provides. you will fully cooperate with our representatives the area representative if applicable and independent accountants hired by us to conduct any such inspection or audit. in addition in the event such inspection or audit is made necessary by your failure to furnish reports supporting records or other information as required herein or to furnish such reports records or information on a timely basis or if an understatement of gross sales resulting in an underpayment of the royalty fee or advertising fee for the period of any audit which shall not be for less than one month is determined by any such audit or inspection to be five percent or greater you will pay to us immediately after receipt of the inspection or audit report any additional royalty fee and advertising fee and other amounts due as a result of any such understatement plus interest at the default rate from the date originally due until the date of payment and you must reimburse us for such audit or inspection including the charges of any independent accountants and the travel expenses room board and compensation of such accountants and our employees. the remedies in this section. will be in addition to all other remedies and rights available to us under this agreement or otherwise available. store document of. data fee. we may require you to pay us or a third party we designate a data fee of up to seventy five dollars per month for polling or collecting data from your pos system. pos help desk phone support maintenance service fee. you must purchase from us a help desk phone support maintenance service that covers phone support for both the software and hardware of your pos system that is supported by the help desk the cost of which is currently sixty dollars monthly and subject to increase upon thirty days notice pos help desk phone support maintenance service fee. the pos help desk phone support maintenance service fee shall be paid by electronic funds transfer as detailed in section. and debited from your account on the last thursday of each month. new supplier approval fee. all requests for approving new or alternative suppliers must be submitted in writing by you or the supplier to our purchasing department. each request will be reviewed in accordance with our then current procedures and the supplier must meet our then current requirements which may include that our representatives be allowed to inspect the facilities of the proposed supplier and that samples from the proposed supplier be delivered at no charge either to us or to our designee for testing. charge not to exceed the amounts incurred in connection with the inspection and the test with such cumulative amount not to exceed five thousand dollars must be paid by the supplier. if approved in our sole discretion we will notify you or the supplier in writing within sixty days after our receipt of an approval request. you must not offer or sell in any manner any of the proposed alternative supplier products until you receive our written approval of the proposed alternative supplier. reserved. non participation fee. you must offer and sell at the location of the franchised business all products designated by us consistent with our system standards. in addition you must immediately incorporate into the franchised business all new products and services designated by us and must fully participate in all local regional seasonal promotional and other programs initiatives and campaigns adopted by us in which we require you to participate. if you fail or refuse to fully participate in any such program initiative or campaign you may in our sole discretion be required to pay a non participation fee of one hundred dollars per day that you are not in compliance non participation fee. not applicable. through. not applicable. article. proprietary marks. ownership and right to use. we warrant to you that store document of a we are the owner of all right title and interest in and to the proprietary marks. we have granted to you the personal non exclusive limited revocable right and license to use the proprietary marks in connection with the operation of your franchised business. we have taken and will take all steps reasonably necessary to preserve and protect our rights in the proprietary marks and. we will only permit you to use the proprietary marks in accordance with the system standards. covenants of franchise owners. a you acknowledge our ownership of the proprietary marks and you agree that during the term and after its expiration or termination you will not directly or indirectly contest or aid in contesting the validity of the proprietary marks or our ownership of the proprietary marks nor will you take any action which might impair or prejudice our ownership of the proprietary marks. you shall not directly or indirectly apply to register register or otherwise seek to own or control any of the proprietary marks or any confusingly similar mark thereto whether in whole or in part in any place or jurisdiction either within or outside of the united states nor will you assist any others to do so. you agree that the license granted pursuant to this agreement authorizes you to use the proprietary marks solely in connection with the franchised business only at the location and for no other purpose. you have no right to license or sublicense any aspect of the system standards or any of the proprietary marks. you agree to use the proprietary marks only in the manner and to the extent specifically licensed by this agreement. you further agree that any unauthorized use or continued use of the proprietary marks after the termination or expiration of this agreement will constitute irreparable harm and is subject to injunctive relief. the license granted by this agreement includes only the proprietary marks now existing or which may exist in the future. this license does not include the right to use any other trademarks service marks trade name or trade dress owned by us or our licensor anywhere in the world. you agree that any and all goodwill associated with and identified by your use of the proprietary marks will inure directly and exclusively to our benefit and that on the expiration or termination of this agreement no monetary amount will be due or payable to you as a result of any goodwill associated with your ownership or operation of the franchised business. limitations on franchisee use of proprietary marks. to develop and maintain high and uniform standards of quality and service and thereby protect our reputation and goodwill and that of the system you agree a to operate and advertise the franchised business only under the proprietary marks authorized by us store document of. to adopt and use the proprietary marks licensed by this agreement solely in the manner prescribed by us. that your corporate partnership or other entity name including trade name will not include any of the proprietary marks in whole or in part or any terms confusingly similar thereto unless first authorized by us in writing. to submit all advertising promotional materials and all printed matter including stationery business cards and any materials to be used on the internet to us for our written approval before you use any of these items and. that we may from time to time change or modify the system standards including modifying existing proprietary marks or adopting new marks. you agree at your own expense to adopt use and display any such new or modified proprietary marks within ninety days after notification from us. however if we require you to modify or discontinue use of our proprietary information or use other information or rights in its place at any time other than upon renewal of this agreement and that requirement is a direct result of proceedings or litigation that determined that our and our franchisees use of the proprietary information infringed upon a third party rights we or our affiliate will bear the actual direct and reasonable costs of those modifications or discontinuances. the rights granted to franchisee under this section shall be franchisee sole and exclusive remedy for any infringement by any part of the system. upon your abandonment of the franchised business whether voluntary or involuntary termination or expiration of this agreement you must immediately cease to use in any manner whatsoever any of the proprietary marks or any other marks which in whole or in part may be confusingly similar to any of the proprietary marks. non exclusive license of proprietary marks. you understand and agree that your license to use the proprietary marks is non exclusive that we in our sole discretion can grant to other franchisees the right to use the proprietary marks and obtain the benefits of the system standards in addition to the licenses and rights granted to you under this agreement and that we or our affiliates may develop and license other proprietary marks in conjunction with concepts other than the cold stone creamery concept on any terms and conditions we deem advisable. you will have no right or interest in any such other licenses proprietary marks or systems. notification of infringement and claims. you agree that you will notify us immediately of any apparent infringement of or challenge to your use of any of the proprietary marks or any claim by any person of any rights in any of the proprietary marks. you agree that you will not communicate with any person other than us and our legal counsel in connection with any such infringement challenge or claim. we will have the sole discretion to take such action as we may deem appropriate to protect the proprietary marks and the exclusive right to control any litigation united states patent and trademark office proceeding or other proceeding arising out of any such infringement challenge claim or otherwise relating to any proprietary marks. you agree to execute any and all instruments and documents render such assistance and do such acts and things as may in the opinion of our counsel be necessary or advisable to protect and maintain store document of our interests in connection with any such litigation or proceeding or to otherwise protect and maintain our interests in the proprietary marks. article. trade secrets and proprietary information. innovations. during the term you and your principals officers managers and employees may conceive inventory create design or develop various ideas techniques methods processes and procedures recipes formulae products packaging or other concepts and features relating to restaurant operations business practices or the manufacturing production marketing and sale of super premium ice cream cakes pies smoothies shakespeare specialty beverages other dessert with frozen confections and other food and beverage items and related goods now in existence or later developed adopted or improved in connection with the franchised business individually and collectively innovations. you without further consideration hereby assign any and all of your rights title and interest in the innovations including any intellectual property rights to us and also agree to cooperate with us and our counsel in the protection of the innovations including the perfecting of title thereto in us. in addition you will require all of your principals officers managers and employees to sign an agreement in the form set forth in our system standards and incorporated herein by reference confidentiality agreement and shall be liable to us for obligating your principals officers managers and employees to assign all of their rights title and interest to the innovations to us and requiring your principals officers managers and employees to cooperate in obtaining protecting maintaining and enforcing our right title and interest in the innovations. confidentiality agreement. a in connection with the operation of the franchised business you will from time to time receive have access to or learn certain information and materials that are proprietary to us or our affiliate. you and any person signing this agreement under the heading personal acceptance of sections. and. agree that you will keep confidential and will not use for your own purposes nor supply or divulge to any other person any of our trade secrets including our methods of operation processes techniques formulae and procedures information a reasonable person would believe to be confidential and any other proprietary information regardless of whether such is expressly marked as confidential confidential information. you acknowledge that much of the information imparted to you by us is confidential constitutes trade secrets are unique to us and remains our sole exclusive property. our confidential information includes the following. the confidential manual and any amendments thereto. ingredients recipes and methods of preparation of food products. methods of operation of cold stone creamery restaurants. information about products services or procedures before they become public knowledge. information which relates in any manner to our business or the system standards whether oral or reduced to writing and which is not generally known to or readily store document of ascertainable by other persons who might derive economic benefit from its disclosure or use and. any other information which may be imparted to you from time to time and designated by us as confidential. you and any person signing this agreement under the heading personal acceptance of sections. and. acknowledge and agree that the confidential information and any business goodwill of the franchised business is our sole and exclusive property and that you will preserve the confidentiality thereof. upon termination or expiration of this agreement all items records or documentation recording or incorporating any confidential information including any copies thereof will be immediately turned over by you to us or our authorized representative. you agree to take all steps necessary at your own expense to protect the confidential information including our trade secrets and to adopt and implement all reasonable procedures prescribed by us from time to time to prevent the unauthorized use or disclosure of any of the confidential information. we require that all of your executive officers agents directors shareholders trustees beneficiaries partners and managers who may or are likely to obtain knowledge concerning the proprietary information and who do not sign this agreement under the heading personal acceptance of sections. and. sign the confidentiality agreement binding such person to preserve the confidentiality of the confidential information as part of the terms and conditions of such person employment or association with you. you must obtain a confidentiality agreement signed by any such person prior to or at the same time that you begin employment of or association with that person. this will be a continuing obligation on your part throughout the term. you must keep each original signed confidentiality agreement and provide us with a copy of each confidentiality agreement when requested by us or our authorized representative. notwithstanding the above confidential information shall not include information which you can reasonably prove i entered the public domain through no breach by you or your affiliate of any duty of confidentiality or ii you received our prior express written consent to disclose in the manner in which you disclosed it. if anyone under a confidentiality agreement is legally compelled or required by a regulatory body to disclose any confidential information he she it will notify us as soon as possible and will use his her its best efforts to obtain and give us an opportunity to obtain appropriate assurances of confidential treatment. the requirements under this section. will remain in full force and effect during the term and after termination or expiration of this agreement. article. relationship of the parties and indemnification. relationship of the parties. you and we agree that this agreement does not create any fiduciary or employment relationship between you or any of your employees and us that you are an independent contractor and that nothing in this agreement is intended to make either you or us a general or special agent legal representative subsidiary joint venture partner employee or servant of the store document of other for any purpose. you shall not enter into any agreement on behalf of or otherwise bind us for any purpose. should it ever be asserted that franchisor is the employer joint employer or colorado employer of any of your or your affiliate employees in any private or government investigation action proceeding arbitration or other setting you irrevocably agree to assist franchisor in defending said allegation including if necessary appearing at any venue requested by franchisor to testify on our behalf and as may be necessary submitting itself to depositions other appearances and or preparing affidavits dismissive of any allegation that franchisor is the employer joint employer or colorado employer of any of your employees. indemnification of franchisor. you agree to indemnify defend and hold us and our affiliates including our parent and subsidiary companies current past and future predecessors successors and assigns and each of our shareholders owners directors officers members managers partners joint venturers attorneys employees contractors agents representatives guarantors insurers spouses heirs executors trustees and estates collectively with us indemnified parties harmless for from and against any and all claims liabilities causes of action suits debts duties accounts covenants contracts agreements promises taxes demands obligations costs and expenses including reasonable attorneys fees damages judgments and proceedings of every kind and nature whatsoever whether actual or threatened in law or equity or otherwise under local state or federal law including without limitation the americans with disabilities act ada or the law of any other applicable jurisdiction individually and collectively claims suffered or incurred by any of the indemnified parties arising out of or relating to your construction ownership marketing promotions as defined in article operation including your failure to comply with pci dss or any law statute regulation order rule or ordinance or management of the franchised business except for claims held to have resulted solely from our gross negligence or willful misconduct. notwithstanding the foregoing we will have the right at our option to defend any claim but you must reimburse us upon demand for the costs and expenses of such defense. you shall immediately give us notice of any demand investigation written inquiry action suit proceeding or claim in any way related to us or the cold stone creamery brand. indemnification of franchisee. we agree to indemnify defend and hold you and your affiliates and their shareholders directors officers members managers partners employees agents successors and assignees harmless for from and against any and all claims arising out of any claim of infringement or unfair competition in connection with your authorized use of the proprietary marks or confidential information provided that such use is in accordance with the provisions of this agreement. however if we require you to modify or discontinue use of our proprietary marks or confidential information or use other information or rights in its place at any time other than upon renewal of this agreement and that requirement is a direct result of proceedings or litigation that determined that our and our franchisees use of the proprietary marks or confidential information infringed upon a third party rights we will bear the cost of those modifications or discontinuances as set forth in this agreement. store document of. special power of attorney. you agree to cooperate with and assist us as we may request from time to time to obtain protect maintain or enforce our intellectual property and proprietary marks including executing documents and appearing as a witness. you hereby appoint us as your attorney of fact and hereby grant us an irrevocable special power of attorney coupled with an interest with full power and authority for the purpose of executing documents or taking such action as necessary or appropriate as you might or could do if personally present hereby ratifying all that we as your attorney in fact shall lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue of this special power of attorney to obtain protect maintain or enforce our intellectual property and proprietary marks if we are for any reason unable to obtain your cooperation or assistance. the special power of attorney granted by this section. shall survive your dissolution death incompetence or disability and the termination or expiration of this agreement. article. operating standards and duties of franchise owner. compliance with system standards and confidential manual. you understand and acknowledge that every detail of the operation of the franchised business is important in order to develop and maintain high and uniform standards of quality cleanliness appearance service facilities and techniques to increase the demand for the system and to protect our reputation and goodwill and that of other cold stone creamery franchisees. you also acknowledge that the operation of the franchised business is your sole responsibility and that neither we nor our affiliates have any responsibility to obtain customers for you. the system standards will constitute provisions of this agreement as if fully set forth herein. authorized products and services. a you agree that you will not without our prior written approval offer at the location any menu items beverages products or services that are not authorized by us for the franchised business as set forth in the system standards. you have complete discretion in establishing the minimum price you charge for your products. although we may suggest pricing strategy you will have the final pricing decision. notwithstanding the terms of section. b we may conduct periodic promotional campaigns during which a specified product or products are promoted at a specified price. during the promotional period you may not charge your customers more than the specified promotional price although you may charge less than the promotional price. we may conduct new marketing research and development branding and operational program tests which will generally be conducted with experienced existing franchisees and may include incentives and other rights that are not available to all franchisees. you hereby consent to third party vendors suppliers and distributors sharing with us any and all information reports invoices and related documentation covering and otherwise detailing your purchases for the franchised business and to us sharing your contact information with them when we reasonably believe they may offer you a desired benefit. store document of. you are required to accept debit and credit cards including visa mastercard and american express and gift loyalty cards from consumers at the franchised business. prior to the opening of your franchised business you are required to acquire and maintain during the term an approved debit credit and gift loyalty card processing system card processing system to use during the operation of the franchised business. additionally you must utilize our approved third party payment card processor as identified in the system standards for processing all card processing system transactions. specifications and standards for supplies approved suppliers rollouts. a you must purchase or otherwise acquire certain proprietary or required equipment and supplies utilized in the franchised business only from our designated approved distributors or suppliers. if during the term we change designated approved distributors or suppliers for any of the proprietary or required equipment and supplies utilized in the franchised business you shall change to the new designated approved distributor or supplier within sixty days after written notification of such change from us. you acknowledge franchisor and or its affiliates has the right to receive commissions volume discounts purchase discounts performance payments bonuses rebates marketing and advertising allowances colorado op advertising administrative fees enhancements price discounts economic benefits and or other payments payments based upon the actual purchases of the foods beverages and other products by franchisor its affiliates area developers and franchisees from suppliers. any such payments made to franchisor may be retained by franchisor or distributed to franchisees in such amounts and using such allocation methods as franchisor deems appropriate in its sole discretion. all payments received from a supplier for a designated purpose such as participation at an annual convention et cetera will be spent in accordance with the supplier designated purpose. if you desire to purchase or otherwise acquire any equipment supplies or inventory items required by the system standards but not previously approved by us or from sources not previously approved by us you must submit to us sufficient specifications photographs drawings and other information sufficient to allow us to determine whether such equipment supplies or inventory items meet our system standards. we may require that our representatives be allowed to inspect the facilities of the proposed supplier and revoke its approval upon the supplier failure to meet any of our then current minimum system standards. we may also require that samples from the proposed supplier be delivered at no charge to us either to us or to our designee for testing. charge not to exceed the reasonable cost and expense of the inspection and the actual cost and expense of the test must be paid to us either by you or by the proposed supplier. we will notify you within sixty days after your request of our approval or disapproval of the proposed product or supplier with such determination to be made at our sole discretion. you acknowledge and agree that our approval of any item or supplier of equipment supplies or inventory not previously approved by us will not in and of itself make the supplier of that item an approved supplier for other cold stone creamery franchise owners in the system. we may in our sole discretion at any time and from time to time re inspect the facilities and products of any approved supplier and revoke its approval upon the supplier failure to meet any of our then current system standards. if you receive a notice of revocation from us you must immediately stop selling disapproved products and purchasing from the disapproved supplier. store document of. we will provide to you a list of all recommended and required items of equipment fixtures supplies smallwares and interior decor. this list will be included in the system standards. at any time and from time to time we may in our sole option engage in new product rollouts to add to or change the menu items offered for sale in the franchised business and the ingredients or supplier of ingredients utilized in the preparation of the menu items sold in the franchised business rollout. if we engage in a rollout you shall participate in the changes that are the subject of such rollout including offering the new menu items changing the menu items changing to the new supplier of the ingredients utilized in the preparation of the menu items and changing to the new ingredients utilized in the preparation of the menu items. if we engage in a rollout we will notify you of the details of the rollout and provide you sixty days from said notification to take the applicable actions required by the rollout. compliance with legal requirements and good business practices. you must at your sole expense operate the franchised business in full compliance with all applicable federal state and local statutes laws ordinances and regulations including health and safety regulations food and drug laws disability laws labor and employment laws and data privacy laws as may be amended supplemented or enacted from time to time. you must pay all costs and expenses incurred by and in the conduct of the franchised business including all rent salaries taxes excluding our income taxes disbursements license or permit fees insurance premiums traveling expenses and any other business expenses. if you receive any demand action suit or proceeding or the issuance of any order writings injunction award or decree of any court agency or other governmental instrumentality relating to your franchised business you must immediately notify us and in no event later than three days after your receipt. any such notice must be accompanied by a copy of the demand complaint order writings injunction award decree or other similar document. you must in all dealings with your employees customers suppliers the public and us adhere to the highest standards of honesty integrity fair dealing and ethical conduct. you agree to refrain from any business practice that may be injurious to the system or the goodwill associated with the proprietary marks. maintenance of insurance. at all times during the term you must maintain in full force and effect at least the minimum types and amounts of insurance coverage that we require under one or more policies of insurance each of which shall be primary coverage and shall not be contributory or secondary to any other coverage maintained by us insured under the particular name of the franchisee and for the particular address of the franchised business. such insurance policies must be issued by insurers acceptable to us having an. best financial strength rating of at minimum viii and grant us authority to obtain copies of your certificate of insurance directly from the carrier or your agent broker. the particular requirements of our minimum insurance coverage will be made available to you throughout your term. currently the general liability insurance required by this agreement must i name kahala franchising. as the certificate holder ii name kahala franchising. and mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated and their parents subsidiaries affiliates officers directors and employees as additional insureds iii contain a waiver by the insurance carrier of all subrogation rights against us and our affiliates and our affiliates respective officers directors and employees for casualty losses iv indicate the address of the franchised business being store document of insured and provide that we will receive a copy via an endorsement thirty days prior notice of cancellation of any such policy. additional minimum insurance coverage requirements subject to increase or otherwise change in our sole discretion are as follows type of coverage limits specifications general liability bodily injury property damage per occurrence aggregate building improvements and betterments of full replacement cost no coinsurance minimum of business personal property of full replacement cost no coinsurance special form or equivalent minimum of spoilage flood earthquake and volcanic eruption subject to territory limitations required if in a designated flood zone workers compensation and employer liability insurance as required by law employment practices liability insurance with franchisor defense coverage hired and non owned automobile liability combined single limit per accident you need to evaluate if your particular business will require greater coverage or other types of insurance. for example we strongly recommend that you consult with an insurance broker to discuss whether your particular lease situation requires and or should obtain additional common types of insurance including without limitation umbrella insurance and cyber liability data breach insurance coverage. such insurance may significantly increase your premiums but may also save you money in the long run. you are responsible for maintaining insurance coverage and limits as required by us at minimum pursuant to this section. provided if your landlord requires additional coverage higher limits or any other requirements not required by us then you are responsible for maintaining such additional items as well. you must always keep the required insurance coverage in force at all times during the operation of the franchised business and you must comply with any changes we make periodically to our insurance requirements. upon days notice to you we may require you to increase and or otherwise change the minimum coverage of the insurance referred to above including to reflect identification of special risks changes in law or standards of liability higher damage awards or other relevant changes in circumstances. subject to section. before you may open your restaurant annually thereafter at least ten days prior to renewal of your insurance coverage and at any other time on our request store document of you must provide us with certificates of insurance or copies of insurance policies showing that you are in compliance with our insurance requirements as well as proof that you have paid the premiums you owe for the insurance we require. you will pay your insurance premiums to your insurance broker or to the insurance company issuing the policy. we or our affiliate may at our option and in addition to our other rights and remedies under this agreement obtain such insurance coverage on your behalf and you must promptly execute any applications or other forms or instruments required to obtain any such insurance and pay to us on demand any costs expenses and premiums in whole or part incurred by us. your obligation to obtain and maintain the insurance described above will not be limited in any way by reason of any insurance maintained by us nor will your performance of such obligations relieve you of any obligations under section. management of the franchised business. you are directly responsible for all aspects of operating the franchised business and you agree that you will at all times operate the franchised business and use your best efforts to enhance your franchised business and the system. the franchised business must be personally managed and directly operated by either you or another partner shareholder or member of your business organization or a manager. inspections by franchisor. for the purpose of this section. you must make available to us or our authorized representatives such financial and other information concerning the franchised business and you must permit us or our authorized representatives to have full and free access to such information at your franchised business location during regular business hours without prior notice. we and our authorized representatives will have the right to communicate freely with your employees and make extracts from and copies of all such information. our authorized representative may make announced or unannounced inspections of your franchised business to ensure compliance with all of the requirements of this agreement. personal guaranty non disclosure and non competition agreement. if you are an individual and married your spouse must execute and deliver to us a guaranty of franchise agreement and a non disclosure and non competition agreement at the same time that you sign the agreement unless your spouse is also singing the agreement as an individual. if you are a corporation limited liability company or other business entity each of your shareholders members or other owners whether direct or indirect and their respective spouses if married must execute and deliver to us a guaranty of franchise agreement and a non disclosure and non competition agreement at the same time that you sign this agreement. in the event any person who has not previously signed a guaranty of franchise agreement or a non disclosure and non competition agreement becomes your spouse or shareholder member or other owner direct or indirect or a spouse of such shareholders members or other owner at any time after the execution of this agreement you must cause such person to immediately execute and deliver a guaranty of franchise agreement and a non disclosure and non competition agreement to us. store document of failure to provide a guaranty of franchise agreement or a non disclosure and non competition agreement to us may in our sole discretion be grounds for termination of this agreement as set forth in section. a not applicable. article. advertising and promotion. advertising by franchisor. we or at our election a third party which may be an affiliate of ours will administer the advertising fund that will include your advertising fee and those of other franchise owners in the system. if an affiliate of ours administers the advertising fund or places advertising in connection with the system such affiliate may be paid a fee that will not exceed the fee that would be payable to unrelated third parties for comparable services. unless required by applicable law we will have no obligation to create a trust account escrow account or other special account for the advertising fund and the monies comprising the advertising fund may be placed in our general account. we may also reserve the advertising fee for use in a subsequent year. we will direct all advertising and promotional programs. we will have sole discretion over all creative concepts materials and media used in such programs and the placement and allocation of such programs. the advertising fund will be used for marketing advertising production and media expenses to promote the cold stone creamery trade name system products and services. we are entitled to deduct free of charge the following from the advertising fund reimbursement of expenses overhead and employee salaries for services provided and rent for office space provided to the advertising fundamental we are not required to use any specific amounts from the advertising fund in your market. however we in our sole discretion may use some amounts contributed by you to any advertising fund if any see section. in the same geographic area in which your franchised business is located. advertising by franchisee. in addition to your advertising fee if applicable and unless your franchised business is located in an enclosed shopping mall or other enclosed structure identified in section. you agree to pay for a regular white pages and classified yellow pages telephone directory advertisement in the main directory distributed in the area where your franchised business is located in such directory categories as we specify utilizing forms of listing and classified directory advertisements approved by us. we also recommend that in addition to your advertising fee you spend at least two percent of your monthly gross sales on local advertising. your own local marketing and advertising plan should be developed to maximize your particular customer base. you should not rely upon a marketing program or plan by us as the sole means of obtaining customers. all marketing and advertising materials must be reviewed by the marketing department for look and feel. the marketing department review is not for determining compliance with federal state and local laws. store document of all advertising by you in any medium must be conducted in a professional manner and must conform to the system standards. we may make available to you from time to time advertising promotional plans and materials for purchase. under no circumstances may you use without limitation the name image or voice of a celebrity public figure character or other person in connection with the proprietary marks or the franchised business without our prior written consent. we retain the sole and exclusive right to use without limitation the name services or image of any celebrity public figure character or other person in advertising endorsing or recommending the system. article. accounting procedures and reports. maintenance of records. you shall keep full complete and accurate books and accounts in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and in the form and manner indicated below or as from time to time further required by us. you agree to submit reports and data to us electronically if we advise you to do so. you agree a to submit to us electronically the weekly gross sales as set forth in section. to submit to us on or before the thirtieth th day of each month commencing with the opening of the franchised business in a format and method approved by us including through a third party vendor that franchisee may be required to pay for a profit and loss statement of the franchised business for the preceding calendar month prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. to submit to us within ninety days after the end of each calendar year commencing with the opening of the franchised business in a format approved by us a profit and loss statement and balance sheet including a statement of retained earnings or partnership account for the preceding calendar year. to submit to us at the times required such other periodic forms reports and information as may from time to be time be required by us. to preserve in the english language and for the time periods set forth below all accounting records and supporting documents related to the franchised business individually and collectively records including. daily cash reports. cash receipts journal and general ledger. cash disbursements journal and weekly payroll register. monthly bank statements daily deposit slips and canceled checks. all tax returns including your personal returns and those of your officers shareholders partners and members. suppliers invoices paid and unpaid store document of. dated cash register tapes detailed and summary. semi annual balance sheets and monthly profit and loss statements. daily production throwaway and finishing records and weekly inventories. records of promotion and coupon redemptions. records of all outside sales and. such other records as we may from time to time request. to record all sales on cash registers approved by us as specified in the confidential manual. to file all of your federal and state tax returns on a timely basis and to provide copies of them to us. we may where applicable require that tax returns from all of your shareholders members or partners be provided to us if you are other than an individual. during the term you shall preserve the records for at least the current fiscal year and for the three immediately preceding fiscal years. for three years after the date of any transfer of an interest in this agreement the transferor of such interest will preserve the records for its last three fiscal years of operation under this agreement. for three years after the expiration of the term or after any earlier termination you shall preserve the records for the last three fiscal years of operation of the franchised business and i in connection with our efforts to attract additional franchise owners to the system we will have the right to use without identifying you except as required or allowed by law any financial statements sales reports profit and loss statements or balance sheets provided by you and in connection therewith you authorize us to disclose any information contained on such financial reports as may be required by any federal or state registration or disclosure law. audit by franchisor. we will have the right at any time during business hours and with or without prior notice to you to inspect and audit or cause to be inspected and audited the records and cash control devices of the franchised business and your corporate partnership or limited liability company books and records if you are a corporation partnership limited liability company or other entity. you agree that we may access any computers utilized by you for such purposes. you will fully cooperate with our authorized representatives and independent accountants hired by us to conduct any such inspection or audit. in the event any such inspection or audit discloses an understatement of your gross sales for any period in question you will pay to us immediately after receipt of the inspection or audit report any additional royalty fee or advertising fee due as a result of any such understatement plus interest at the default rate from the date originally due until the date such understatement is paid in full. in addition in the event such inspection or audit is made necessary by your failure to timely furnish records or if an understatement of the royalty fee or advertising fee for the period of any audit which period shall not be for less than one month is determined by any such audit or inspection to be five percent or greater you must reimburse us all amounts store document of incurred in connection with such audit or inspection including our employee costs and expenses any independent accountants and attorneys fees transportation room and meal expenses. the remedies in this section. will be in addition to all our other remedies and rights under this agreement or under applicable law. article. transfer sections. through. apply to all transfers except transfers by us which are described in section. prior consent of franchisor. a as used in this agreement transfer means any voluntary involuntary including by operation of law direct or indirect assignment sale gift or other transfer by you including. full transfer which is any act or circumstance except those set forth in section.a by which fifty percent or more of the ownership or control is shifted from any individual or corporation partnership or other business entity individually and collectively entity to another including i transfer of this agreement or the franchised business or any right or interest granted by this agreement ii transfer of an interest in you if you are an entity iii merger consolidation or issuance of additional ownership interests or redemption of ownership interests in you if you are an entity or iv transfer of an interest in any other entity holding an interest in this agreement or you if you are an entity. affiliate transfer which includes i transfer in a separation or divorce regardless of how much of the ownership or control is shifted from any individual or entity to another ii transfer of this agreement or the franchised business or any right or interest granted by this agreement from your name as an individual to your entity name in which you are the sole owner of the entity iii transfer of this agreement or the franchised business or any right or interest granted by this agreement from your entity name in which you are the sole owner to your name as an individual iv transfer of this agreement or the franchised business or any right or interest granted by this agreement from one entity name to another entity name in which the owners of the entities are the same store document of removing an owner from the franchisee unless the person has a fifty percent or more ownership interest virgin islands adding an owner to the franchisee unless the person has a fifty percent or more ownership interest or vii transfer by which less than fifty percent of the ownership or control is shifted from any individual or entity to another for any act or circumstance listed in section.a we are entering into this agreement based upon our knowledge of and faith in your ability. therefore the franchised business and all the rights granted by this agreement are personal to you and you may not transfer without our prior written consent. any attempted transfer without our prior written consent will be null and void and will give us the right to terminate this agreement and your rights under it in addition to any remedies which we may have for the breach of this covenant by reason of an attempted transfer. we shall not unreasonably withhold or delay our consent to a transfer so long as it is shown to our satisfaction that the potential transferee potential transferee can perform a franchisee obligations under the then current form of franchise agreement and all other agreements legal instruments and documents required of new franchisees. advance notice of proposed terms and right of first refusal. a if you or any of your shareholders members or partners have received and desire to accept a signed bona fide written offer from a third party to transfer you shall notify us and provide us with a complete copy of the offer letter of intent which must include the name address and telephone number for every potential transferee. you must also include information as to the identity of all who will own an interest in this agreement or in the franchised business after the completion of the transfer their respective interests and the proposed terms and conditions of sale and payment. we shall have the right and option exercisable within thirty days after the date we receive a copy of the offer to purchase the interest proposed to be transferred at the price and upon the same terms and conditions specified in the notice. if we do not exercise our option and the terms of the unaccepted offer are altered you must in each such instance notify us of the changed offer and we will again have thirty days to exercise our right to purchase on the altered terms. if we do not exercise our option then the transfer may take place on the terms and price set forth in the notice provided i we give our written consent ii the transfer takes place no later than six months from receipt of our written refusal to exercise our option to purchase and iii all the conditions set forth in section. are satisfied. requirement for consent to transfer. if a transfer is proposed and we do not exercise our right of first refusal pursuant to section. then we will consent to the transfer provided that store document of a all your obligations under this agreement are fully paid and satisfied including the royalty fee and advertising fee you are not in default under any provisions of this agreement or any other agreement legal instrument or document with us or any of our affiliates and you enter into written agreements with us including except where prohibited by law a general release by you of all claims against us. potential transferee provides to us a completed application and financial documents is financially acceptable is not associated with any of our competitors is of good moral character and reputation and meets our criteria which includes work experience and aptitude ability to devote time and best efforts to the franchised business equity interest in the franchised business ability to speak and read english sufficient in our opinion to communicate with employees customers and suppliers and to satisfactorily complete our training no conflicting interests and other criteria and conditions that we apply to new franchisees. potential transferee provides us with copies of all governing documents of potential transferee. certificate of incorporation or organization by laws stock certificates operating agreement membership certificates if any which must be reasonably satisfactory to us in our sole discretion. you provide to us a copy of the purchase and sale agreement if a full transfer or other documentation evidencing the transfer if an affiliate transfer and following our analysis of the terms and conditions of the proposed transfer we in our sole discretion conclude that such terms and conditions will not interfere with the financial feasibility of the future operation of the franchised business. potential transferee enters into all agreements legal instruments and other documents whether our then current agreements legal instruments and documents or a transfer of this agreement and related legal instruments and documents as determined by us individually and collectively transfer documents. the terms of the transfer documents may vary materially from the current agreements used by us including the payment of a higher royalty fee and advertising fee. not applicable. potential transferee pays to us the transfer franchise fee if a full transfer or potential transferee pays us the document administration fee if an affiliate transfer franchisee shall be liable to the franchisor for the transfer franchise fee or document administration fee in the event the potential transferee fails to pay such fee that is owing in full. not applicable i potential transferee successfully completes the training program required by the transfer documents if a full transfer. potential transferee agrees to complete all remodeling and improvements as required by us and must upgrade the pos system to the then current required pos system within the time period specified by us if a full transfer. you and potential transferee agree not to assert any security interest lien right or claim now or in the future in the franchised business. any security interest lien claim or store document of right asserted with respect to any personal property at the location must not include any after acquired property and must be subject junior and subordinate to any security interest lien right or claim now or in the future asserted by us our successors or assigns and. you agree to complete and sign a letter of agency letter of authorization or equivalent and provide it to potential transferee so that potential transferee may keep the existing telephone number when the store is transferred to potential transferee. death or incapacity of individual franchisee change in entity. a death or incapacity of franchisee when franchisee is an individual i in the event of your death or incapacity your legal representative may for a period of ninety days from the date of death or incapacitation continue to operate the franchised business provided that the operation is conducted in accordance with this agreement and any other agreements with us. ii if your representative desires to continue the operation of the franchised business beyond the ninety day period then prior to the expiration of this period your legal representative must apply in writing for the right to transfer the franchised business to the person or persons whether spouse heir devisee purchaser or any other person as the legal representative may specify. the application for transfer will be treated in the same manner as any other proposed transfer under this agreement. iii if your legal representative does not comply with the provisions of the preceding paragraph or does not propose a potential transferee acceptable to us under the standards set forth in this agreement all rights licensed to you under this agreement will terminate immediately and automatically revert to us. we shall have the right and option in our sole discretion exercisable upon such termination to purchase all removable furniture fixtures signs equipment and other chattels but not leasehold improvements at a price to be agreed upon by the parties or if no agreement as to price is reached by the parties at such price as may be determined by a qualified appraiser approved by both parties such approval not to be unreasonably withheld. we shall give notice of our intent to exercise the option no later than twenty one days prior to termination. death or incapacity of any shareholder partner or member in franchisee when franchisee is a business entity i in the event of the death or incapacity of any of your shareholders partners or members the surviving shareholders partners or members may for a period of ninety days from the date of death or incapacitation continue to operate the franchised business provided that the operation is conducted in accordance with this agreement and any other agreements with us. ii if your shareholders partners or members desire to continue the operation of the franchised business beyond the ninety day period then prior to the expiration of this period your shareholders partners or members must apply jointly with all surviving shareholders partners or members in writing for the right to transfer the franchised business or the interest of the deceased or incapacitated shareholder partner or member in the franchised business to the person or business entity as the surviving shareholders partners or members may specify. the store document of application for transfer will be treated in the same manner as any other proposed transfer under this agreement. iii if all surviving shareholders partners or members do not comply with the provisions of the preceding paragraph or do not propose a potential transferee acceptable to us under the standards set forth in this agreement all rights licensed to you under this agreement will terminate immediately and automatically revert to us. we shall have the right and option in our sole discretion exercisable upon such termination to purchase all removable furniture fixtures signs equipment and other chattels but not leasehold improvements at a price to be agreed upon by the parties or if no agreement as to price is reached by the parties at such price as may be determined by a qualified appraiser approved by both parties such approval not to be unreasonably withheld. we shall give notice of our intent to exercise the option no later than twenty one days prior to termination. assignment by franchisor. you agree and affirm that we may without your prior consent sell our business our assets or our system in whole or in part to a third party may issue a public offering of our securities may engage in private placement of some or all of our securities may merge with or acquire other corporations or be acquired by another corporation and may undertake a refinancing recapitalization leveraged buyout or other economic or financial restructuring. you further agree and affirm that we have the right now and in the future without your prior consent to purchase merge acquire or affiliate with an existing competitive or non competitive franchise network chain or any other business regardless of the location of such franchise network chain or business which you acknowledge may be proximate to your franchised business and to operate franchise or license such franchise networks chains or businesses operating under the proprietary marks or any other marks following our purchase merger acquisition or affiliation. with regard to any of the above sales assignments and dispositions you expressly and specifically waive any claims demands or damages against us arising from or related to the loss of your rights to use the system as authorized under this agreement. this agreement will inure to the benefit of our successors and assigns. in conjunction with one or more of the transactions contemplated above or as otherwise determined by us we have the right to assign our rights and obligations under this agreement to any person or entity without your prior consent. upon such assignment we will be relieved of all obligations or liabilities then existing or thereafter able to be asserted under this agreement. restrictions on security interests and subfranchising. except as otherwise set forth in this section. you shall not have any rights to pledge encumber hypothecate or otherwise give any third party a security interest in this agreement in any manner whatsoever nor subfranchise or otherwise transfer or attempt to subfranchise or transfer the franchised business in whole or in part so long as it is operated as the franchised business without our express prior written permission which permission may be withheld for any reason whatsoever in our sole discretion. notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary you shall have the right to pledge your accounts receivable net of royalties and rent without our prior written consent for the sole purpose of obtaining financing for the operation of the franchised business provided you are in full compliance with this agreement and any other agreement arrangement or understanding with us. store document of article. renewal subject to the terms and conditions described below you will have the right to renew your license to operate the franchised business for an additional term of five years. in the event you desire to renew your license you must give us notice to that effect at least one hundred twenty days prior to the expiration date of the term. in addition to giving the notice of renewal referred to above in a timely manner in order to have the right to renew the license to operate the franchised business for an additional term you must also meet each of the following requirements a you must not then be in default under this agreement or any other agreement legal instrument or document with us or any of our affiliates and no event shall have occurred that with the giving of notice the passage of time or both would constitute a default under this agreement including all financial obligations to us. you must be in complete compliance with the terms of this agreement including all financial obligations to us and the then current confidential manual. you must not have received more than three notices of default or breach of this agreement during its term nor more than two notices of default or breach during the five years immediately preceding the effective date of the proposed renewal. you must have the existing right to maintain possession of the location or you must have secured and developed a suitable substitute location that meets our then current minimum site requirements such confirmation will be provided to you by us in writing. you must sign a general release provided by us. you and we must execute all agreements legal instruments and other documents individually and collectively renewal documents then used by us in the renewal of franchises and then being required of new franchise owners in connection with the system. the renewal documents will supersede this agreement but will not terminate your liability to perform any obligations which you have not yet performed under this agreement or which survive the termination of this agreement nor will the renewal documents terminate or supersede any guaranty of franchise agreement confidentiality agreement or non disclosure and non competition agreement executed pursuant to this agreement. the terms of the renewal documents may vary materially from the current agreements used by us including the payment of a higher royalty fee and advertising fee. the equipment fixtures and signage used in connection with the operation of the franchised business must either meet our then existing system specifications and standards or you must agree within a timeframe required by us to replace or refurbish such items and otherwise modify the methods of operation of the franchised business at your cost and expense in order to comply with our system specifications and standards then applicable to new franchise owners. you agree to complete all remodeling and improvements as required by us and must upgrade the pos system to the then current required pos system within the time period specified by us and store document of i you shall have paid to us the renewal franchise fee as required under section. if you do not meet any of the requirements for renewal we will give you a notice to that effect which will specify the requirements not met. the notice will be given to you within sixty days after you deliver to us your notice of intent to renew. article. default and termination. default termination. a you will be in default under this agreement i if a you become insolvent or make an assignment for the benefit of creditors you file a petition in bankruptcy or if such a petition is filed against and consented to by you and such petition is not dismissed within thirty days from the filing date of such petition you are adjudicated bankrupt a bill in equity or other proceeding for the appointment of your receiver or other custodian for your business or assets is filed and is consented to by you or is not dismissed within thirty days from the filing date of such bill or other proceeding a receiver or other custodian is appointed proceedings for composition with creditors under any state or federal law is instituted by or against you the real or personal property of the franchised business is sold at levy thereupon by any sheriff marshal or constable or sold by a secured party under any state commercial code ii if you fail to pay perform observe or comply with any of your duties and obligations under this agreement or the confidential manual including failure to provide a fully executed copy of the lease to us when due and failure to pay when due any sum due to us under this agreement including the royalty fee and advertising fee or to any advertising fund inclusive of any association or if you breach any of your obligations under any lease sublease mortgage equipment agreement promissory note vendor account conditional sales contract or other contract arising from or in connection with the franchised business to which you are a party or by which you are bound whether or not we are a party thereto iii if your lease or sublease for the location of the franchised business is either a in default and you fail to cure such default as provided in the lease or sublease is terminated for reason of default by you or the location is lost as a result of your failure to comply with the lease or sublease iv if you fail within thirty days of the entry of a final judgment against you in an amount exceeding two thousand dollars to discharge vacate or reverse the judgment or to stay its execution pending appeal or to discharge any judgment which is not vacated or reversed within thirty days after expiration of the stay of execution if we determine that a serious health or safety problem exists at the franchised business in which case we may require you to immediately correct the problem or cease operating until the problem is corrected virgin islands if you or any owner colorado owner or principal of the franchised business is convicted of a felony a crime involving moral turpitude or any other crime or offense that is store document of reasonably likely to adversely affect the system the goodwill associated therewith or our interest therein vii except for any reason provided in section. if you abandon the franchised business which abandonment shall conclusively be deemed established if the franchised business is closed for more than three consecutive days viii except for any reason provided in section. if you close or relocate the franchised business without our express advance written consent ix if you fail to maintain an independent contractor relationship with us if you either negligently or knowingly inaccurately report or fail to report any information in your franchise application xi if you or any owner colorado owner or principal of the franchised business commits an act or permits an act to be committed that violates any federal state or local law that adversely impacts the franchised business xii if you fail to participate in any rollout detailed in section. xiii if you violate any of the provisions of sections. or. including the requirement that you a sell or offer for sale only those products and services authorized by us purchase such authorized products and services only from suppliers or service providers who are approved in writing by us and utilize or switch to any of our designated approved suppliers including a supplier who has entered into a national or regional master supplier agreement with us xiv if you transfer or attempt to transfer any rights or obligations under this agreement or any other property or assets to any third party in violation of the provisions of article xv if you or any of your owners officers directors managers members or partners as applicable a become subject to. executive order or are involved in any activity that violates the. foreign corrupt practices act or any other anti corruption bribery or any other laws orders or governmental notices affecting your ability to conduct business in or with the united states as may be amended and whether in effect as of the effective date or at any time during the term are identified on the. department of the treasury office of foreign assets control specialty designated national and blocked persons list or receive any funding from any country that is subject to an embargo by the united states any foreign government or government official political party or xvi if you intentionally made any false representations and warranties under section. cross default default by you under this agreement will be deemed a default of all agreements between i you and your principals in his or her individual capacity or any other entity in which your principals are owners members managers shareholders or partners individually and collectively franchisee entity and ii us or any of our affiliates or predecessors individually and collectively franchisor entity. franchisee entity default of store document of any other agreement legal instrument or other document between the franchisee entity and a franchisor entity will be deemed a default under this agreement. default by any guarantor of your obligations under this agreement or any agreement legal instrument or document between a franchisee entity and a franchisor entity will be deemed a default of this agreement. termination if you fail to cure any default to our satisfaction within the applicable period following notice from us if applicable or otherwise breach this agreement we may in addition to all other remedies at law or in equity or as otherwise set forth in this agreement immediately terminate this agreement. this termination will be effective immediately upon the giving of notice pursuant to article. cross termination if this agreement is terminated as a result of your default of this agreement or any other agreement related to the franchised business we may at our option elect to terminate any or all other agreements legal instruments or documents between a franchisee entity and a franchisor entity. if any agreement legal instrument or document between a franchisee entity and a franchisor entity is terminated as a result of a default by the franchisee entity we may at our sole discretion elect to terminate this agreement. it is agreed that an incurable or uncured default under this agreement or any other agreement legal instrument or document between a franchisee entity and a franchisor entity will be grounds for termination of this agreement or any other agreement legal instrument or document between a franchisee entity and a franchisor entity without additional notice or opportunity to cure. opportunity to cure. a fourteen day cure period except as otherwise provided in this section. you will have the right to cure your default under this agreement within fourteen days after notice of default is given by us pursuant to article. notwithstanding the foregoing the following lesser periods will apply under the circumstances described. seven day cure period seven day cure period will apply if you fail refuse or neglect to pay when due any monies owing to us including the royalty fee and advertising fee or otherwise to any advertising fund inclusive of any association or if you fail to maintain the insurance coverage set forth in this agreement. hour cure period forty eight hour cure period will apply if you are in default of section. or if you fail to participate in any limited time product offering value offering contest promotion or charity event. you must initiate your participation in such offering contest promotion or event within forty eight hours and fully participate in such offering contest promotion or event as soon as reasonably possible in our sole discretion thereafter. hour cure period twenty four hour cure period will apply to your violation of any law regulation order or our standards relating to health sanitation or safety or except as provided in section. if you cease to operate the franchised business for a period of forty eight hours without our prior written consent. in addition a twenty four hour cure period will apply if you post on any site or direct others to any site or page post blog or other social media site where there are posted any defamatory or offensive comments about other franchisees the cold stone creamery brand other brands franchised by us or one of our affiliates your or other franchisees customers any of our your or franchisees vendors us or any of our affiliates or any of our your or franchisees competitors store document of. immediate cure period less than hours an immediate cure period less than twenty four hours will apply if you post any content to a site in which the content includes any inappropriate public displays of affection our or others confidential information or materials violations of health or safety standards foul or obscene language or any images of or information about any persons from whom you did not obtain prior written consent. no cure period no cure period will be available if you are in default of sections. a i a iii. a virgin islands a vii. a viii. a xiv. a xv or. if you intentionally underreport weekly gross sales falsify financial data fail to promptly provide upon our request financial data and records specified in this agreement or otherwise commit an act of fraud with respect to your rights or obligations under this agreement if you repeatedly fail to comply with the provisions of this agreement whether or not subsequently cured if you having twice previously cured a default of this agreement commit the default again if you made any false representations and warranties under sections. fahrenheit g meter or. north or if you engage in trademark misuse or otherwise materially misuse or make an unauthorized use of any of the components of the system or commit any other act which does or can reasonably be expected to materially impair the goodwill or reputation associated with any aspect of the system. statutory cure period if a statute in the state or municipality in which the franchised business is located requires application of that state or municipal law and that statute requires a cure period for the applicable default which is longer than any cure period specified in this article the statutory cure period will apply. our right to take over management. we have the right but not the obligation under the circumstances described below to enter the franchised business and assume the franchised business management for any period of time we feel is appropriate. if we assume the franchised business management you must pay us in addition to the royalty fee and advertising fee six percent of the gross sales plus our direct out of pocket cost and expenses for the period of time we assume the franchised business management. if we assume the franchised business management you acknowledge that our duty is limited to using our reasonable efforts and we will not be liable to you or your owners for any debts losses or obligations the franchised business incurs or to any of your creditors for any supplies or services the franchised business purchases. we may assume the franchised business management if you abandon the franchised business or if you fail to comply with any provision of this agreement and did not cure the failure within the time period we specify in our notice to you. you agree to complete and sign a letter of agency letter of authorization or equivalent and provide it to us upon our request if we assume the franchised business management so that we may keep the existing telephone facsimile alarm and credit card machine numbers as applicable in operation under our phone service provider. you also agree to keep the phone water gas electric service as applicable turned on and active for one week after we assume the franchised business management to allow us to switch the services over to us or our affiliate. our exercise of our management rights under this section. will not affect our right to terminate this agreement. remedies. a interest costs and damages if you fail to remit when due any payments required under this agreement you agree to pay in addition to the unpaid amounts all of our store document of collection costs and expenses expert fees reasonable attorneys fees and costs and expenses including all fees costs and expenses of court including all appeals with interest on the unpaid amounts at the default rate or the highest permissible rate. if you fail to cure a default following notice within the applicable time period set forth in section. or if this agreement is terminated as a result of your default you shall pay to us all damages of any kind and nature whatsoever and all collection costs and expenses expert fees reasonable attorneys fees and costs and expenses including all fees costs and expenses of court including all appeals together with interest at the default rate or the highest permissible rate. if you fail to report gross sales in accordance with sections. and. we may estimate your royalty fee and advertising fee based on prior reports and may sue for and obtain judgment for such estimates unless you prove prior to the entry of any default order or judgment that your royalty fee and advertising fee are different than the estimates. waiver of punitive damages both we and you waive to the full extent permitted by law any right they otherwise may have had to claim pursue demand or receive any exemplary or punitive damages arising out of or related in any way to this agreement and its addenda amendments appendices exhibits and attachments. if you breach any of the terms of this agreement including if you are in default of this agreement we may enforce our rights by injunction specific performance or any other remedy available under this agreement at law or in equity including termination. these remedies are cumulative and not exclusive and we may use all remedies available. in addition we may elect to terminate this agreement and all your rights under it as set forth in section. if you breach any of the terms of this agreement including if you are in default of this agreement we have the right to have a receiver appointed to take possession manage and control the assets of the franchised business collect the profits and pay the net income for the operation of the franchised business as ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction. the right to appoint a receiver will be available regardless of whether waste or danger of loss or destruction of the assets exists. effect of termination or expiration. upon termination or expiration of this agreement we can advise all suppliers of cold stone creamery proprietary food items and other supplies bearing any of the proprietary marks or service marks to cease delivering the items and products to you. upon your abandonment of the franchised business whether voluntary or involuntary any termination of this agreement whether pursuant to sections. or otherwise or upon expiration of the term you must immediately cease to hold yourself out to the public as a franchise owner of the system and you must comply with the following a immediately pay to us or any affiliate of ours all sums owing from you to us or such affiliate including the royalty fee and advertising fee for any period prior to the date of termination the applicable early termination damages as defined in section. below and all amounts owed for services supplies or other items purchased by you from us or any affiliate of ours or that were financed by us or any affiliate of ours or which we or any affiliate of ours loaned to you together with any interest or late fees accrued thereon together with all other store document of sums due us under this agreement and all damages of any kind or nature whatsoever that may be allowed by law. immediately cease to use in any manner whatsoever including in all advertising the proprietary marks any trade secrets any confidential information any benefits of the system or any part thereof any methods associated with the system any forms recipes confidential manual slogans signs sign posts marks symbols or devices used in connection with the operation of the franchised business and you must deliver or destroy all of the above mentioned materials including any materials containing or referencing any of the foregoing to us as directed by us. if we do not recover any such items such items shall be valued at their then current replacement cost for purposes of determining the damages owing by you to us for failure to return such items if we pursue a damage claim as a result thereof. immediately discontinue all advertising as a franchisee of the system and thereafter refrain from any advertising that would indicate that you are or ever were a franchisee or licensee of ours or otherwise were affiliated with us or the system. immediately take such steps as may be necessary or appropriate to i delete your listing in all telephone directories if applicable and terminate any other listings that indicate that you are or were a franchisee or licensee of ours or otherwise were affiliated with us or the system and ii transfer to our designee or us all telephone numbers used by you in connection with the franchised business. you acknowledge that between you and us we have the sole right and interest in all telephone numbers and directory listings associated with any proprietary marks and you authorize us and appoint us and any officer or agent of ours as your attorney in fact to direct the telephone company and all listings agencies to accept such direction or this agreement as conclusive evidence of our exclusive rights in such telephone numbers and directory listings and our authority to direct their transfer. immediately take such action as may be required to cancel all fictitious or assumed names amend any entity name or dissolve any entity that contains any proprietary mark in whole or in part regardless of whether the entity name was authorized by us and amend or cancel any and all equivalent registrations relating to your use of any proprietary mark. you acknowledge that between you and us we have the sole right and interest in all such fictitious or assumed names entity name and equivalent registrations and you authorize us and appoint us and any officer or agent of ours as your attorney in fact to effect the termination or cancellation of such fictitious or assumed names or equivalent registrations should you fail or refuse to do so and the appropriate federal state and local agencies may accept your direction or this agreement as conclusive evidence of our exclusive rights in such fictitious or assumed names or equivalent registrations and our authority to direct their termination or cancellation. comply with the confidentiality requirements and the covenant against competition in this agreement for the specified period. you acknowledge that you or if an entity your authorized representative has carefully reviewed the confidentiality requirements and the covenant against competition in this agreement and that you have agreed to be bound by all the requirements and covenants and store document of. maintain at a place made known to us all books records and reports required under this agreement for a period of not less than three years after the date of termination or expiration of this agreement to allow us to make a final inspection of your books and records for the purpose of verifying that all amounts owing have been paid. if you fail to do any of the foregoing we may pursue any remedy available at law or in equity against i you ii any or all guarantors of your obligations under this agreement and iii you and any or all guarantors of your obligations under this agreement. we have the right but not the obligation to purchase from you any assets or property but not leasehold improvements used in the operation of the franchised business for an amount equal to the value as defined below as of the termination date. if we are required by law regulation or court order to purchase the equipment and other tangible assets used in connection with the franchised business the purchase price will be equal to the value. for purposes of this agreement the term value means subject to applicable law an amount equal to your cost for such assets less depreciation and amortization using a two hundred percent declining balance method over a five year period. if all or any portion of your assets that are being purchased by us or our authorized representative are subject to lien we or our authorized representative may pay on your behalf the lienholder that portion of the purchase price for your assets which may be the entire purchase price that is necessary to obtain the release of those assets from the lien in lieu of paying you those funds. further we may offset any amounts payable to you pursuant to this section. or otherwise pursuant to this agreement against any unpaid amounts payable to us or our affiliates pursuant to this agreement or any agreement executed in connection with this agreement. covenant not to compete conflicting interests. a during the term and for a period of two years after your abandonment of the franchised business expiration of this agreement or termination of this agreement whether voluntary or involuntary you shall not engage in any competing business as defined in section. circa with any cold stone creamery restaurant nor shall you have any conflicting interest as defined in section. d in a competing business. the provisions of this agreement bind you in any capacity including as a franchisee sole proprietor partner limited partner member employer franchisor shareholder officer director or employee. during the term and for a period of two years after your abandonment of the franchised business expiration of this agreement or termination of this agreement whether voluntary or involuntary you shall not divert or attempt to divert any business customers or potential customers of the cold stone creamery system to any competing business by direct or indirect inducement or otherwise. in addition you shall not at any time do or perform any act directly or indirectly which harms the goodwill or reputation of us or the system. for purposes of this section. competing business means a business which is primarily engaged in the sale of ice cream along with cakes cupcakes pies smoothies and other dessert products prepared or served with ice cream or as an ingredient and all variations thereof within a geographical area consisting of during the term anywhere else and after abandonment expiration or termination of this agreement within a ten mile radius from the location or location of any cold stone creamery restaurant of ours our third party licensees or our third party franchisees. the term cold stone creamery store document of restaurant includes not only the restaurants now in existence but also those established at a later date. the term of this covenant will be extended by any time consumed in litigation to enforce it in both trial and appellate courts. if a court of competent jurisdiction determines that the restrictions in this paragraph are excessive in time geographic scope or otherwise the court may reduce the restriction to the level that provides the maximum restriction allowed by law. for purposes of this section. conflicting interest means an interest by which you or your executive officers directors and shareholders if you are a corporation or your partners if you are a partnership or your members if you are a limited liability company or your designated manager directly or indirectly have a controlling interest in lend money to consult with or otherwise assist any competing business. if any of the persons named above do not sign this agreement under the heading personal acceptance of sections. and. then you agree to obtain the execution by such person of a written agreement setting forth the foregoing in a form acceptable to us. continuing obligations. all your obligations that expressly survive the expiration or termination of this agreement including sections. and. or by the implicit nature thereof require performance after the expiration or termination of this agreement will continue in full force and effect subsequent to and notwithstanding your abandonment of the franchised business whether voluntary or involuntary the expiration of the term or termination of this agreement until they are satisfied in full or by their nature expire. the indemnities and obligations set forth in article will continue in full force and effect subsequent to and notwithstanding the expiration or termination of this agreement. remedies. you acknowledge and agree that the restrictions contained in this agreement including in this article are fair and reasonable and necessary for the protection of our legitimate business interests and you intend and agree that such restrictions be enforceable and enforced to their fullest extent. you further understand and agree that notwithstanding any other provision of this agreement your breach of your obligations under this article will cause us irreparable harm for which recovery of monetary damages alone would not be an adequate remedy. both parties shall be entitled to obtain timely injunctive relief including a temporary restraining order preliminary and permanent injunctions to protect their rights under this agreement in addition to and not exclusive of any and all other remedies available to each party. early termination damages. if you discontinue operating your franchised business before this agreement expires with or without obtaining our prior written consent or in the event of a termination of this agreement arising from or related to your default and breach of its provisions you will become obligated to pay franchisor early termination damages early termination damages. the early termination damages shall be considered damages and not a penalty are not in lieu of other damages and your payment of these damages shall not constitute a release of any other obligation owed to us. franchisor franchisee each individual signing on behalf of franchisee and each guarantor guaranteeing franchisee obligations hereunder hereby acknowledge and store document of agree that franchisor losses due to franchisee unilateral closure of the franchised business or termination of this agreement would be highly difficult or impossible to calculate with reasonable certainty and therefore have agreed at the outset of this agreement that the early termination damages and the formula for calculating these damages constitutes a reasonable good faith forecast of franchisor estimated losses and damages due to the premature closure of the franchised business or termination of this agreement. the amount of the early termination damages is calculated as follows a compute the average monthly royalty fee and advertising fee due for any consecutive twelve month period within the forty eight months immediately preceding the date we receive notification of the closure or if you failed to timely notify us of the closure then the date the franchise business closed or if the franchised business has been open for less than twelve months the average monthly royalty fee and advertising fee due since the opening of the franchised business monthly average. multiply the monthly average by the number of months remaining in the term and. divide the resulting total computed indiana above by two. for example purposes only if the average monthly royalty fee and advertising fee were collectively and there were five years months remaining in the term the early termination damages would be calculated as follows months. if you unilaterally terminate this agreement prior to the end of the term you must give us ninety days prior notice of the early termination early termination notice. within ten days after our receipt of your early termination notice we will calculate the early termination damages which will be due and payable thirty days prior to the closure of your franchised business. in the event of a termination arising from or related to your default under this agreement or that you do not i provide us with the early termination notice at least ninety days prior to the early termination of your franchised business and this agreement ii remain open for at least ninety days after providing us with the early termination notice and iii pay the early termination damages in full at least thirty days prior to closing of the franchised business the early termination damages due may in our sole discretion be increased as follows it will be calculated by multiplying the monthly average by the number of months remaining in the term and will not be divided by two. if you have not paid your royalty fee and advertising fee for any period within the forty eight months prior to notifying us of your early termination or if you have not reported your gross sales for any period within the forty eight months prior to notifying us of your intended early termination we will estimate the royalty fee and advertising fee based upon prior reports to calculate the monthly average. article. notices unless otherwise provided in this article all notices specified by this agreement or required by law must be in writing and given by personal delivery sent by carrier i fedex ups et cetera certified mail return receipt requested. all notices to us must be given at the store document of address set forth on page of this agreement or to such other address as we may designate in writing from time to time in accordance with this article. all notices to you may be given at the address set forth on page of this agreement at the address of the franchised business at any of your franchised restaurants at your residence if an individual or at the residence of your principal shareholder partner or member if a business entity. notices will be conclusively deemed to be given delivered and effective when sent pre paid and actually left in the custody of an adult agent employee or resident at a place of business or residence if given by personal delivery or if given by carrier twenty four hours after deposited with carrier or if by. certified mail three days after deposited with the. postal service. you have an obligation to promptly notify us pursuant to this article whenever your mailing address phone number or email address change. notwithstanding the foregoing we may give you written notice via email to an email address you provide us regarding all notices specified by this agreement or required by law with such email notification to be deemed received by you twenty four hours after we send it unless you otherwise earlier acknowledge receipt. article. construction and enforcement miscellaneous. independent contractors. the relationship between you and us is that of independent contractors. you are in no way to be deemed our partner joint venturer agent employee or servant. you have no authority to bind us to any contractual obligation or incur any liability for or on our behalf. you shall identify yourself as an independent owner of the franchised business in all dealings with customers lessors contractors suppliers public officials employees and others. severability and substitution of provisions. except as provided to the contrary in this agreement each article section term and provision of this agreement and any portion thereof will be considered severable and if for any reason any such portion of this agreement is held to be invalid contrary to or in conflict with any applicable present or future law or regulation or as a result of a final non appealable ruling issued by any court agency or tribunal with competent jurisdiction in a proceeding to which we are a party that regulation or ruling will not impair the operation of or have any other effect upon such other portions of this agreement as may otherwise remain valid and such other portions will continue to be given full force and effect and bind the parties to this agreement. if the severed provision is material to this agreement we shall promptly provide a substitute provision to replace the invalid severed provision consistent with then current law and the original intent of the parties. if any applicable and binding law or rule of any jurisdiction requires a greater prior notice of the termination of or refusal to renew this agreement than is required under this agreement or the taking of some other action not required under this agreement or if under any applicable law regulation or court ruling of any jurisdiction any provision of this agreement or any specification standard or operating procedure prescribed by us is invalid or unenforceable the prior notice or other action required by such law regulation or court ruling will be substituted for the comparable provisions of this agreement and we will have the right in our sole discretion to modify such invalid or unenforceable provision specification standard or operating procedure to the extent required to be valid and enforceable. such modifications to this agreement shall be effective only in such jurisdiction unless we elect to give them greater applicability and otherwise shall be enforced as originally made and entered into in all other jurisdictions. store document of. dispute resolution. a except as otherwise provided herein any dispute claim or controversy arising out of or relating to this agreement the breach hereof the rights and obligations of the parties hereto or the relationship between the parties or the entry making interpretation or performance of either party under this agreement dispute which cannot be resolved by mediation under section. d or is not subject to mediation under the terms of this agreement shall be settled by arbitration administered by the american arbitration association aaa in accordance with its commercial arbitration rules as modified below. any arbitration shall take place before a sole arbitrator in maricopa county arizona or if our headquarters are no longer located in maricopa county arizona then the arbitration shall take place in the county in which our headquarters are located at the time the arbitration is commenced. you agree that conducting the arbitration where we are located is appropriate due to the multiple locations throughout the united states where our franchisees are located. the parties agree that the arbitrator shall be an attorney licensed to practice law in the united states and must have a minimum of five years of experience in franchise law. judgment on the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court of competent jurisdiction. the arbitrator shall in the award allocate all of the costs and expenses of the arbitration including the fees of the arbitrator and the reasonable attorneys fees of the prevailing party against the party who did not prevail. to the extent permitted by applicable law no issue of fact or law shall be given preclusive or collateral estoppel effect in any other dispute arbitration proceeding or litigation except to the extent such issue may have been specifically determined in another proceeding between the parties. this agreement to arbitrate shall survive any termination or expiration of this agreement however effected. the parties agree that any arbitration shall be solely between them including any affiliates and shall not include as a party by consolidation joinder or in any other manner any other person or entity unless both parties consent in writing. both parties shall have the absolute right to refuse such consent. further the parties expressly waive any right to bring or participate in any class or other consolidated joined or multi party arbitration claim or proceeding whether or not permissible under the aaa commercial arbitration rules including any claim brought on their behalf by an association of which it he or she is a member. at the request of any party the arbitration shall be conducted in a manner that maintains the confidentiality of the proceedings. the arbitrator will issue a reasoned award with findings of fact and conclusions of law. actions to enforce an express obligation to pay monies may be brought under the expedited procedures of the aaa commercial arbitration rules. the federal arbitration act shall govern excluding all state arbitration laws. arizona law will govern all other issues. with respect to discovery the arbitrator shall require each party to make a good cause showing before any discovery exceeding that specifically authorized by the aaa commercial arbitration rules will be granted. prior to the commencement of an arbitration proceeding the parties must first submit any dispute to non binding mediation. at the request of any party the mediation will be confidential. the mediation shall be conducted in maricopa county arizona or in the county in which our headquarters are located at the time of mediation unless the parties shall mutually agree to a different location. the parties to the mediation will share equally in its costs and expenses except those costs and expenses incurred separately by each party including counsel fees and expenses. the mediation process will be deemed completed when the parties agree that it has been completed the mediator declares that any impasse exists or sixty store document of days have elapsed since the date of the initiating party notice to the other party that it is initiating the mediation process whichever occurs first. notwithstanding anything contained in this agreement to the contrary the provisions of sections. a b circa and. d do not apply to a dispute where i we bring an action for an express obligation to pay monies declaratory relief preliminary or permanent equitable relief any action at law for damage to our goodwill the confidential information the proprietary marks or for fraudulent conduct by you or ii the delay resulting from the mediation process may endanger or adversely affect the public for example unhealthy unsafe or unsanitary conditions would continue to exist. for such disputes we may bring an action in any federal or state court having jurisdiction whether for monetary damages temporary preliminary and permanent injunctive relief or specific performance in addition to and not exclusive of any other remedies available to us. you hereby consent to and waive any objection or defense and agree not to contest venue forum non conveniens or jurisdiction of such court or arbitration. disputes concerning the validity or scope of arbitration including whether the dispute is subject to arbitration are beyond the authority of the arbitrator and will be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to the federal arbitration act. et seq. as amended from time to time. either party may appeal the final award of the arbitrator if it is over one hundred thousand dollars to the appropriate. district court. the court review of the arbitrator findings of fact will be under the clearly erroneous standard and the court review of all legal rulings will be delaware novo. if it should be determined that this provision for federal court review is not enforceable then either party may appeal the arbitrator final award if it is over one hundred thousand dollars to a panel of three arbitrators chosen under aaa optional appellate arbitration rules which will employ the same standards of review stated immediately above. applicable law and forum waiver of jury statute of limitations. a except to the extent that the united states trademark act of as amended. et seq. or the franchising laws of any state that may be applicable the laws of the state of arizona govern all rights and obligations of the parties under this agreement without regard to conflict of law. the parties agree subject to the mandatory mediation and arbitration provisions of section. that any appropriate state or federal court located in maricopa county arizona has exclusive jurisdiction over any dispute arising under or in connection with this agreement and is the proper forum in which to adjudicate the case or controversy. notwithstanding the foregoing any action initiated by us may at our election be brought in any jurisdiction where you are domiciled or that has jurisdiction over you. the parties hereto irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of and venue in any such court and hereby waive any objection or defense thereto. the parties agree that all disputes submitted to the court pursuant to this section shall be tried to the court sitting without jury notwithstanding any state or federal constitutional or statutory rights or provisions. notwithstanding anything contained in this agreement to the contrary the parties agree that any claims under arising out of or related to this agreement must be brought within two years of the date on which the underlying cause of action accrued and the parties store document of hereby waive any right to bring any such action after such two year period except for the collection of any unpaid royalty fee advertising fee and any other amount due to us or our affiliate. you hereby waive the right to seek or collect punitive multiple consequential and special damages in any forum including arbitration. you hereby further waive the right if any of any association or membership group to assert claims on your behalf in any action. you hereby waive the right to any damages in connection with or resulting from the wrongful issuance of an injunction. the parties agree that the maximum damages that you may recover in connection with a wrongful termination of your franchise and this agreement will be an amount equal to the product of i the annual net profit as defined below multiplied by ii the lesser of a the number of full years existing between the date on which the franchise and this agreement were wrongfully terminated and the date on which the term would have otherwise expired or three. for purposes of this agreement the term net profit means an amount equal to the net profits of your franchised business as reflected on your tax return filed with the internal revenue service prior to such termination provided however that if such tax return reflects the operations of your franchised business for a period less than one year such net profits will be annualized based upon the net profits reflected in such tax return. no guarantee of franchisee success. you have been informed of and acknowledge the highly competitive nature of the business involved and agree that the successful operation of your franchised business will depend in part upon your best efforts capabilities management and efficient operation as well as the general economic trend and other market conditions. existence of various forms of franchise agreements. you acknowledge that our present and future franchisees operate under a number of forms of franchise agreements and consequently our obligations and rights with respect to our various franchisees may differ materially in certain instances. the existence of different forms or versions of the franchise agreement does not entitle you to benefit from any such difference nor does it operate to alter or amend the agreement of the parties set forth in this agreement. store document of. franchise owner may not withhold payments. you agree that you will not on grounds of alleged or actual nonperformance or breach by us of any of our obligations under this agreement withhold payment of any royalty fee advertising fee amounts due to us or any of our affiliates for goods or services purchased by you or any other amounts due to us or any of our affiliates. remedies are cumulative. the rights and remedies of the parties to this agreement are cumulative and not exclusive and no exercise or enforcement by either party of any right or remedy under this agreement shall preclude the exercise or enforcement by such party of any other right or remedy under this agreement or otherwise available at law or in equity to such party. interpretation. all the terms and provisions of this agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the parties. however nothing in this section. may be construed as our consent to the transfer of this agreement or any rights by you. waiver. our failure to insist upon the strict performance of any term covenant or condition contained in this agreement will not constitute or be construed as a waiver or relinquishment of our right to enforce thereafter any such term covenant or condition and such term covenant or condition will continue in full force and effect. for example franchisor acceptance of any payments made by franchisee after a breach of this agreement shall not be nor be construed as a waiver by franchisor of any breach by franchisee of any term covenant or condition of this agreement. litigation expense. if an action at law or suit in equity is brought to establish obtain or enforce any right by either of the parties to this agreement the prevailing party in the suit or action in the trial and appellate courts will be entitled to recover from the non prevailing party reasonable attorneys fees costs and expenses and disbursements incurred in such suit or action. no third party beneficiaries. this agreement is not intended to benefit any other person or entity except the named parties hereto and no other person or entity shall be entitled to any rights hereunder by virtue of so called third party beneficiary rights or otherwise. binding effect modification. this agreement is binding upon the parties to this agreement and their respective executors administrators personal representatives heirs permitted assigns and successors in interest. no amendment change or modification of this agreement shall be binding on any party unless executed in writing by you and us. store document of. entire agreement nature and scope construction. this agreement all exhibits attachments addendums and amendments constitute the entire understanding and agreement between the parties and there are no other oral or written understandings or agreements between us and you relating to the subject matter of this agreement. if required to be signed any state specific addendums are incorporated herein by reference. any representation not specifically contained in this agreement made prior to entering into this agreement does not survive subsequent to the execution of this agreement. we and you have entered into this agreement for the sole purpose of authorizing you to use the system licensed by this agreement in the operation of the franchised business during the term in which those specific items designated by us for sale and use in such locations are offered for sale and use in individual face to face transactions with patrons visiting the franchised business and equivalent telephone or mail transactions accepted as a convenience to that customer group. all consideration being furnished by us to you during the course of performance of this agreement has been determined based on the limited rights and other limitations expressed herein. no other rights have been bargained for or paid for. this provision is intended to define the nature and extent of the parties mutual contractual intent there being no mutual intent to enter into contract relations whether by agreement or by implication other than as set forth in this agreement. the parties further acknowledge that these limitations are intended to achieve the highest possible degree of certainty in the definition of the contract being formed in recognition of the fact that uncertainty creates economic risks for both parties which if not addressed as provided in this agreement would affect the economic terms of this bargain. nothing in this agreement or in any related agreement is intended to disclaim the representations we made in the disclosure document. nothing in this agreement is intended nor shall be deemed to confer any rights or remedies upon any person or legal entity not a party hereto. terminology. in addition to the terms defined elsewhere in this agreement the following terms defined below are incorporated in this agreement by reference and shall be deemed to include all persons who succeed to the interest of the original where applicable the term affiliate means any person who directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries controls is controlled by or is under common control with any person the term dollars means united states dollars and all amounts due under this agreement shall be paid in united states currency the use of the terms includes and including in any provision of this agreement followed by specific examples used shall not be construed to limit application of the provision to only the specific examples used the term person means any natural person corporation partnership trust other entity association or form of organization the term will and shall shall be synonymous and shall be mandatory and not discretionary unless otherwise specifically provided herein and store document of any references to articles or sections refer to articles and sections in this agreement unless specified otherwise. counterparts. this agreement may be executed in one or more original counterparts and all of which when taken together shall be deemed to be one original agreement. the signatures required for execution may be transmitted to the other party via facsimile or a scanned.pdf file sent via email and such signature shall be deemed a duplicate original shall be effective upon receipt by the other party may be admitted in evidence and shall fully bind the party and person making such signature. fully executed copy of this agreement shall be of the same force and effect as the original. offerings. if you are a corporation partnership or other entity and if you intend to offer securities partnership interests or other ownership interests in you through any public or private offering you shall not use any proprietary marks in such public or private offering except to reflect your franchise relationship with us nor shall you misrepresent your relationship with us by any statement or omission of an essential statement. you shall indemnify and hold us harmless from any liability in connection with such offering. nothing in the foregoing shall modify the provisions of article and no such offering shall be made without first complying with any applicable provisions of article. time. time is of the essence of each and every provision of this agreement. force majeure. neither of the parties will be liable for loss or damage or be deemed to be in breach of this agreement if the failure to perform the party obligations results from a transportation shortages inadequate supply of equipment merchandise supplies labor material or energy or the voluntary foregoing of the right to acquire or use any of the foregoing in order to accommodate or comply with the orders requests regulations recommendations or instructions of any government or any department or agency thereof or acts of god and in each case being unforeseeable forces which franchisee could not by the exercise of due diligence have avoided provided however that franchisee must i immediately upon the start of the above mentioned act provide written notice to franchisor that it expressly enacts its rights granted under this section and ii use all commercially reasonable efforts to mitigate the effect of the event of force majeure upon its performance and to fulfill its obligations under this agreement. any delay resulting from any of these causes will extend performance accordingly or excuse performance in whole or in part as may be reasonable except that no such cause will excuse payments of amounts owed at the time of such occurrence or payment of the royalty fee and all other amounts due to us and our affiliates thereafter or permit franchisee to permanently close the franchised business. store document of. plurals and captions. words in the singular number include the plural when the context requires and vice versa. the table of contents and the captions are inserted only for convenience and are not a part of this agreement or a limitation of the scope of the particular article or section to which each refers. joint and several liability. if you consist of two or more individuals whether in the form of separate individuals or a business entity controlled by the individuals then each individual will be jointly and severally liable under the provisions of this agreement. trademark notice. all trademarks referenced in this agreement are those of their respective owners. no accord or satisfaction. if you pay or we otherwise receive a lesser amount than the full amount provided for under this agreement for any payment due hereunder such payment or receipt may in our sole discretion be applied against the earliest amount due us. in addition if interest or late fees are owed we may in our sole discretion apply any amounts paid to the late fees and interest before such amounts are applied to the principal amount owed. we may accept any check or other payment in any amount without prejudice to our right to recover the entire balance of the amount due or to pursue any other right or remedy. no endorsement or statement by you on any check or payment or in any letter accompanying any check or payment or elsewhere shall constitute or be construed as an accord or satisfaction. article. acknowledgments and representations of franchisee. certain representations and warranties of franchisee. you represent and warrant that the following statements are true and complete as of the effective date a you do not seek to obtain the franchised business for speculative or investment purposes and have no present intention to sell or transfer or attempt to sell or transfer the franchised business except as previously approved by franchisor and subject and conditioned to article of this agreement. you understand and acknowledge the value to the system of uniform and ethical standards of quality appearance and service described in and required by the confidential manual and the necessity of operating the franchised business under the system standards. you represent that you have the capabilities professionally financially and otherwise to comply with our system standards. if you are a corporation limited liability company partnership or other form of entity you are duly incorporated organized or formed and are qualified to do business in the state and any other applicable jurisdiction within which the franchised business is located and you are and shall remain duly organized and in good standing during the term. store document of. you represent and warrant that i if you are an individual you are or ii if you are an entity that each of your owners shareholders partners and members are a united states citizen or a lawful resident alien of the united states. all financial and other information that you have provided to us or otherwise made available to us in connection with your application for this franchise is true complete accurate and not intentionally misleading. the execution of this agreement by you will not constitute or violate any other agreement or commitment to which you are a party. any individual executing this agreement on your behalf is duly authorized to do so and the agreement shall constitute your valid and binding obligation and if applicable all of your partners members or shareholders if you are a partnership limited liability company or corporation. you have or if you are a partnership corporation or other entity your partners or principals have carefully read this agreement and all other related documents to be executed by you concurrently or in conjunction with the execution hereof that you have obtained or had the opportunity to obtain the advice of counsel in connection with the execution and delivery of this agreement that you understand the nature of this agreement and that you intend to comply with and be bound by this agreement. i you have read and understand the information and disclosures made in the disclosure document provided to you as acknowledged in section. east you understand and acknowledge that i estimates for initial start up expenses are estimates only and there can be additional start up expenses and ii your sales may differ substantially from any sales provided in item of the disclosure document and there is no assurance that your sales will meet or exceed any sales listed in item of the disclosure document. you have had the opportunity to and have consulted or elected not to consult with your attorney accountant and business advisors before entering into this agreement. you understand and agree that while not applicable in every case our past experience indicates that owner operated restaurants generally perform better than absentee owners with hired managers. the food business is a personal business and is dependent upon your business skill and judgment. this includes your choice of employees. your skill in hiring the right people to work in your franchised business is very important in determining whether people decide to purchase menu items from your franchised business or from another restaurant in the same vicinity. you understand and agree that ownership of a franchise and the franchised business carries certain risks. these risks include the loss of your initial investment other continued financial losses such as rent payments due under lease obligations and other contractual obligations the loss of your time and energy in starting up and running your franchised business and loss of earnings and investment income from your investment in the franchised business. you understand and agree that the franchised business may make money and may lose money and are entering this business venture with this express understanding. you are not relying upon anything which is not contained within this agreement or the disclosure document in determining and deciding to become a franchisee. store document of. notwithstanding the foregoing you understand and agree that the system must not remain static if it is to meet without limitation presently unforeseen changes in technology competitive circumstances demographics populations consumer trends social trends and other market place variables and if it is to best serve the interests of us you and all other franchisees. accordingly you expressly understand and agree that we may from time to time change the components of the system including altering the products programs services methods standards forms policies and procedures of that system abandoning the system altogether in favor of another system in connection with a merger acquisition or other business combination or for other reasons adding to deleting from or modifying those products programs and services which your franchised business is authorized and required to offer modifying or substituting entirely the equipment signage trade dress dcor color schemes and uniform system standards and specifications and all other unit constructions design appearance and operation attributes which you are required to observe under this agreement and abandoning changing improving modifying or substituting the proprietary marks. you expressly agree to comply with any such modifications changes additions deletions substitutions and alterations. you shall accept use and effectuate any such changes or modifications to or substitution of the system as if they were part of the system at the time that this agreement was executed. except as provided herein we shall not be liable to you for any expenses losses or damages sustained by you as a result of any of the modifications contemplated hereby. you represent that neither you nor any of your affiliates officers directors managers members or partners as applicable or funding sources are subject to. executive order identified on the. department of the treasury office of foreign assets control specially designated national and blocked persons list or any terrorist list or other blocked persons list. in addition you represent that you have not received funding from nor are you owned controlled or acting on behalf of the government of any country that is subject to an embargo by the united states any foreign government official political party or international organization and that no foreign government or government official political party or international organization has any financial interest in the franchised business or any monies earned by the franchised business. you represent warrant and agree that you your officers directors managers members or partners as applicable will each at all times conduct themselves in an ethical manner and avoid any activity that might result in a violation of the. foreign corrupt practices act anti terrorism laws or any other applicable anti corruption or bribery laws. additional information respecting franchisee. a you have delivered to us or will deliver concurrent herewith complete and accurate copies of all of your organizational documents including all partnership agreements certificates of partnership articles of organization operating agreements articles or certificates of incorporation by laws and shareholder agreements including all amendments side letters and other items modifying such documents. reserved. store document of. acknowledgements of franchisee. a you acknowledge that you have conducted an independent investigation of the business venture contemplated by this agreement and recognize that this business venture involves substantial business risks and will largely depend upon your ability. other than the financial performance representation contained in item of the disclosure document if any we expressly disclaim making and you acknowledge that you have not received or relied on any warranty or guarantee express or implied as to the potential volume profits or success of the franchised business contemplated by this agreement. franchisee initials. you hereby certify that none of our employees no other person speaking on our behalf and no area representative if applicable have i made any oral written visual or other representation agreement commitment claim or statement that stated or suggested any level or range of actual or potential sales costs income expenses profits cash flow or otherwise other than any financial performance representation contained in item of the disclosure document or ii made any oral written visual or other representation agreement commitment claim or statement from which any level or range of actual or potential sales costs income expenses profits cash flow or otherwise might be ascertained related to a cold stone creamery franchise that is different from contrary to or not contained in the cold stone creamery disclosure document or iii made any representation agreement commitment claim or statement to you that is different from contrary to or not contained in the cold stone creamery disclosure document. you acknowledge and agree that we do not make or endorse nor do we allow any of our employees or other persons speaking on our behalf to make or endorse any additional oral written visual or other representation agreement commitment claim or statement that states or suggests any level or range of actual or potential sales costs income expenses profits cash flow or otherwise with respect to a cold stone creamery franchise other than any financial performance representation contained in item of the disclosure document. franchisee initials. you acknowledge that you have received read and understand this agreement and the related exhibits attachments and agreements and that we have afforded you sufficient time and opportunity to consult with advisors selected by you about the potential benefits and risks of entering into this agreement. franchisee initials. you understand that this agreement including any amendments and exhibits contains the entire agreement between the parties concerning the franchised business and that any prior oral or written statements that are not set out in this agreement including any amendments exhibits and attachments will not be binding. you acknowledge and agree that we do not permit any representations agreements commitments claims or statements or approve any changes in this agreement or any of the amendments exhibits and attachments to this agreement except by means of a written amendment or addendum signed by all parties to this agreement. you acknowledge that nothing in this agreement or in any related agreement is intended to disclaim the representations we made in the disclosure document. store document of franchisee initials. you acknowledge receipt of our disclosure document fourteen days prior to the execution of this agreement or your payment of any monies to us or our agent or sooner if required by applicable state law. franchisee initials. you acknowledge that other than what was previously disclosed to you in our disclosure document to which you acknowledge receipt thereof you have not received any financial statements for us or any of our parent or affiliated companies or relied on the financial condition of us or of any of our parent or affiliated companies when making the decision to purchase the franchised business. franchisee initials. you acknowledge as detailed in section. that you must at your own cost and expense use only our designated and approved design architect for the design of your franchised business. franchisee initials. you acknowledge that the following is your area representative if applicable franchisee initials i if an area representative is identified in section. h you make the following representations with respect to the area representative i you have met or spoken to only the area representative ii other than any financial performance representation contained in item of the disclosure document at no time did the area representative make any promises or statements or projections or forecasts or estimates or warranties or representations or other statement or agreement concerning profits or expenses or costs or actual or projected sales of any kind directly or by implication about cold stone creamery restaurants or about the franchised business that we desire to develop under this agreement or about obtaining the confirmed location or about any other matter other than what is contained in the cold stone creamery disclosure document or cold stone creamery restaurant brochure. iii you acknowledge that you have not received any written materials from us or the area representative except for the cold stone creamery brochure and disclosure document and store document of if there are any exceptions to sections. i i iii identify the item number and list the exception here franchisee initials. you acknowledge there have been no other inducements made with any person or entity including the identified area representative encouraging you to purchase the franchised business such as a side deal or other promise or agreement not included in the agreement. franchisee initials. you acknowledge and understand that article covers the use of the cold stone creamery trademark and prohibition on registration of our proprietary marks. you acknowledge the ownership of the proprietary marks by us and you agree that during the term and after its expiration or termination you will not directly or indirectly apply to register register or otherwise seek to use or control or in any way use cold stone creamery or any other of our proprietary marks or any confusingly similar form or variation in any place or jurisdiction either within or outside the united states nor will you assist any others to do so. you further agree that your corporate partnership or other entity name will not include any of the proprietary marks or phrases similar thereto as a part thereof. furthermore you acknowledge and understand that you are prohibited from filing applications for the registration of our trade names used in connection with your franchised business. franchisee initials. you acknowledge and understand that in the event you have registered a trade name or entity name containing our trademarks you will be required to immediately discontinue all further use of the trademark all proprietary marks and any other marks or names confusingly similar thereto in your entity name. furthermore you will take such action as may be required to amend your entity name and affirmatively cancel or terminate and dissolve all fictitious or assumed names or other registrations that contain our proprietary marks. in the event you do not comply and execute any and all instruments and documents necessary to protect and maintain our interests in the proprietary marks we will then have power of attorney to execute any documents necessary to protect and maintain our interests in the proprietary marks. franchisee initials article. submission of agreement the submission of this agreement to you does not constitute an offer and this agreement shall become effective only upon the execution thereof by the parties. this agreement shall not be binding on us unless and until it shall have been accepted and signed by franchisor. signature page follows store document of in witness whereof each party hereto by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind his or her respective party without further consent or approval of any kind has duly executed and delivered this agreement as of the effective date. franchisee a by name title by name title franchisor kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company by name title store document of personal acceptance of sections. and. each of the undersigned individually and personally accepts and agrees to be bound by the provisions of sections. and. of the foregoing franchise agreement. an individual signature date an individual signature date an individual signature date an individual signature date store document exhibit to the franchise disclosure document guaranty of franchise agreement store document of guaranty of franchise agreement this guaranty of franchise agreement guaranty is entered into as of by each of the undersigned individually and collectively guarantor in favor of kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company franchisor. to the extent this guaranty contains terms and conditions that differ from those contained in the franchise agreement as defined in recital below this guaranty shall control. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this guaranty will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the franchise agreement. recitals. franchisor and a franchisee entered into a franchise agreement dated as amended collectively franchise agreement for a cold stone creamery restaurant located at location. guarantor is a shareholder partner member or other person or entity interested in effecting the grant or transfer of the franchise agreement. without this guaranty franchisor cannot be assured that there are sufficient assets to operate the franchise or to protect franchisor in the event of a default by franchisee. franchisor is willing to enter into the franchise agreement only if guarantor personally guarantees faithful performance of all the terms of the franchise agreement. guarantor acknowledges guarantor received and read the franchise agreement and agrees to be bound to the obligations in this guaranty with regard to the franchise agreement. agreement. in consideration of the above recitals guarantor personally guarantees for the benefit of franchisor its parent subsidiaries affiliates and successors and assigns the prompt and complete performance of all the covenants and conditions contained in the foregoing franchise agreement. this guaranty is effective until all terms of the franchise agreement have been fully and completely performed by franchisee and shall continue through the entire term of the franchise agreement as may be renewed or extended. no release of franchisee or discharge of franchisee under bankruptcy law or any other law shall impair or effect the obligations of guarantor to franchisor hereunder. franchisor is not required to proceed first against the franchisee but may proceed first against the guarantor alone or concurrent with proceeding against franchisee. the obligations of guarantor hereunder are absolute and unconditional. franchisee and franchisor may from time to time alter or modify the franchise agreement between themselves possibly changing or increasing the extent of guarantor obligation under this guaranty. guarantor consents to any and all modifications or amendments of the franchise agreement and the documents and confidential manual referred to in the franchise agreement without requiring notice to guarantor or guarantor consent. store document of. guarantor agrees specifically to be bound by the confidentiality requirements and the covenant against competition in the franchise agreement. guarantor waives notice of acceptance of this guaranty and notice of non performance or non payment by franchisee of any of its obligations or liabilities under the franchise agreement. default by guarantor under this guaranty will be deemed a default under all franchise agreements guaranteed by the guarantor. guarantor agrees to pay all attorneys fees costs and expenses including any and all royalty fees and advertising fees and associated interest on such amounts that are determined to be owing to franchisor due to underreporting by franchisee incurred by franchisor in enforcing this guaranty whether or not suit or action is filed and if suit or action is filed then through trial and all appeals and also in any proceedings or matter in bankruptcy court guarantor assumes all liability for all losses costs attorneys fees and expenses that franchisor incurs as a result of a default by franchisee including those fees and expenses incurred in a bankruptcy proceeding involving franchisee. guarantor hereby agrees that upon notice of default or upon an uncured default of the franchise agreement or any other agreement between guarantor or a legal entity thereof and franchisor or its affiliates and with no prior notice guarantor consents to franchisor or any of its affiliate or third party contractor acquisition and use of non business consumer credit reports on guarantor in order to evaluate as necessary the financial condition of guarantor as principal member manager franchisee and or guarantor in connection with the collection of monetary obligations as contemplated by the franchise agreement this guaranty a promissory note or any other agreements between guarantor or a legal entity thereof and franchisor or its affiliates. guarantor as an individual or individuals hereby knowingly consent to the use of such credit reports consistent with the federal fair credit reporting act as contained indiana et seq. this guaranty is personal to guarantor and the obligations and duties imposed herein may not be delegated or assigned provided however that this guaranty shall be binding upon the successors assigns heirs estate trustee and personal representative of guarantor. this guaranty shall inure to the benefit of franchisor its affiliates successors and assigns. in the event that any one or more provisions contained herein shall for any reason be held to be invalid illegal or unenforceable in any respect such invalidity illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provision hereof and this guaranty shall be construed to bind guarantor to the maximum extent permitted by law that is subsumed within the terms of such provision as though it were separately articulated herein. this guaranty shall be interpreted and construed under the laws of the state of arizona which laws shall prevail in the event of any conflict of law. any appropriate state or federal court located in maricopa county arizona has exclusive jurisdiction over any case or controversy arising under or in connection with this agreement and is the proper forum in which to adjudicate the case or controversy and the parties hereto irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of any such court. the parties agree that all disputes admitted to the court pursuant to this section shall be tried to the court sitting without jury notwithstanding any state or federal constitutional or statutory rights or provisions. store document of. if guarantor consists of two or more persons then each person will be jointly and severally liable under the provisions of this guaranty. the undersigned include name here of each of the undersigned who is not married each represents that he she is not married as of the effective date. guarantor acknowledges that i it is a condition to the granting of the franchise agreement to franchisee that guarantor shall execute and deliver this guaranty to franchisor ii that franchisor has entered into the franchise agreement in reliance upon the agreement of guarantor to do so and iii that as owner of the franchisee guarantor has received adequate consideration to support its execution of this guaranty. this guaranty does not grant or create in guarantor any interests rights or privileges in any franchise or franchise agreement. this guaranty may be executed in one or more counterparts each of which shall be deemed to be an original copy of this guaranty and all of which when taken together shall be deemed to constitute one and the same guaranty. words in the singular number include the plural when the context requires and vice versa and defined terms include the possessive when the context requires and vice versa. guarantor name an individual name an individual name an individual name an individual store csc non disclosure and non competition agreement exhibit to the franchise disclosure document non disclosure and non competition agreement store csc non disclosure and non competition agreement of non disclosure and non competition agreement this non disclosure and non competition agreement agreement is made and entered into as of effective date by and between kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company having an office located at east via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona franchisor and the undersigned an individual having an address of. franchisor and the undersigned may also be referred to in this agreement individually as party and collectively as parties. recitals. franchisor is in the business of licensing franchise systems in the quick service restaurant market and is the owner and or licensee of certain proprietary confidential and or trade secret information related to its business. the undersigned is the spouse of the franchisee or spouse of an employee officer director member manager partner or owner of an interest in the equity or voting interests of franchisee the franchisee under and signatory to that certain franchise agreement dated entered into with franchisor granting franchisee the right to operate one cold stone creamery restaurant franchised business on the terms and conditions stated therein. the undersigned acknowledges that in order to induce franchisor to enter into the franchise agreement franchisee must cause those persons as listed in recital to execute this agreement for the benefit of franchisor. now therefore in consideration of the foregoing and of the representations terms covenants conditions and agreements set forth in this agreement and intending to be legally bound the parties hereby agree as follows agreement. definition of confidential information. confidential information includes without limitation knowledge and information which franchisee knows or should reasonably know which franchisor regards as confidential concerning i formulation ingredients raw materials recipes and food preparation processes for proprietary products non proprietary products collateral logo merchandise or other items or services that franchisor permits franchisee to sell at or from the franchised business ii franchisor supply relationships inventory requirements and control procedures iii pricing sales profit performance or other results of operations of any and all cold stone creamery restaurants including the franchised business iv demographic data for determining sites and territories the results of customer surveys and promotional programs and virgin islands in general business methods trade secrets specifications customer data cost data procedures information systems and knowledge about the operation of cold stone creamery restaurants or the cold stone creamery system whether it is now known or exists or is acquired or created in the future and whether or not the information is included in the confidential manual or franchisor expressly designates the information as confidential. confidential information does not include information which the undersigned can demonstrate came to his or her attention independent of entering into this agreement and information that franchisor agrees is or has become generally known in the public domain store csc non disclosure and non competition agreement of except where public knowledge is the result of the undersigned wrongful disclosure whether or not deliberate or inadvertent. non disclosure of confidential information. a the undersigned agrees not to possess obtain or seek to obtain either directly or indirectly any confidential information from any person or other source unless authorized in writing by franchisor. in the event that the undersigned does possess or comes to possess any confidential information the undersigned shall immediately notify franchisor of that fact and return the confidential information and all copies and portions thereof to franchisor. the undersigned agrees not to disclose duplicate sell reveal divulge publish furnish or communicate either directly or indirectly any confidential information to any other person firm or entity unless authorized in writing by franchisor. the undersigned agrees not to use any confidential information for his or her own personal gain or to further the purposes of others whether or not the confidential information has been conceived originated discovered or developed in whole or in part by the undersigned or represents the undersigned work product. to the extent the undersigned has assisted in the preparation of any information that franchisor considers confidential information or has prepared or created such information by himself or herself the undersigned hereby assigns any rights that he or she may have in such information as creator to franchisor including all ideas made or conceived by the undersigned. the undersigned acknowledges that the use publication or duplication of the confidential information for any purpose not authorized by this agreement constitutes an unfair method of competition by the undersigned. the provisions of this section shall apply forever surviving the expiration or termination of all contracts between franchisor and franchisee. the provisions concerning non disclosure of confidential information shall not apply if disclosure of confidential information is legally compelled in a judicial or administrative proceeding provided the undersigned shall have used his or her best efforts and shall have afforded franchisor the opportunity to obtain an appropriate protective order or other assurance satisfactory to franchisor of confidential treatment for the information required to be disclosed. if the undersigned is required to disclose confidential information whether in whole or in part to any third party pursuant to a subpoena or a court or agency order the undersigned agrees to only disclose the minimum amount of confidential information required to be disclosed. agreements regarding competition. a for as long as franchisee is a party to any franchise agreement with franchisor the undersigned agrees that he or she shall not directly or indirectly own neither beneficially nor of record engage in or render services to whether as an investor partner lender director officer manager employee consultant representative or agent any competing business as defined in section. below provided however the restrictions stated in this paragraph shall not apply to the undersigned after two years from the date that the undersigned ceases to be a spouse of the franchisee or spouse of an employee officer director member manager partner or owner of an interest in the equity or voting interests of franchisee or otherwise associated in any capacity with franchisee. store csc non disclosure and non competition agreement of. for a period of two years after expiration or termination of the last franchise agreement between franchisee and franchisor it shall be a breach of this agreement for the undersigned to directly or indirectly own engage in or render services to whether as an investor partner lender director officer manager employee consultant representative or agent any competitive business provided however the restrictions stated in this paragraph shall not apply to the undersigned after two years from the date that the undersigned ceases to be a spouse of the franchisee or spouse of an employee officer director member manager partner or owner of an interest in the equity or voting interests of franchisee or otherwise associated in any capacity with franchisee. the undersigned may engage in any activities not expressly prohibited by this agreement. however in connection with permitted activities the undersigned shall not i use the confidential information or any of cold stone creamery intellectual property including without limitation any and all rights currently existing or that may come into being which franchisor or franchisor affiliates now own or later acquire in cold stone creamery trademarks proprietary products and or confidential information arising under any patent trade secret copyright trade dress design protection database protection trademark or similar laws of the united states or any other country in which franchisor or its affiliates operate collectively cold stone creamery intellectual property ii engage in any conduct or activity which suggests or implies that franchisor endorses or authorizes the undersigned activities or iii induce any person to engage in conduct prohibited by this agreement. the undersigned acknowledges that the covenants regarding competition are independent of the other covenants and provisions of this agreement. if any provision regarding competition is void or unenforceable under any applicable law but would be enforceable as written or as modified under the laws of the state in which the franchised business is located the local laws the parties agree that the local laws shall govern any dispute concerning or involving the construction interpretation validity or enforcement of the provisions regarding competition. franchisee expressly authorizes franchisor to conform the scope of any void or unenforceable covenant in order to conform it to the local laws. for purposes of this section cold stone creamery system means collectively all of the distinctive business methods proprietary products confidential information and cold stone creamery intellectual property which franchisor now or in the future authorizes or requires franchisee to use as a condition of the franchise agreement as franchisor may modify in its sole discretion at any time. for purposes of this section competing business means a business which is primarily engaged in the sale of ice cream and or frozen yogurt along with cakes cupcakes pies smoothies and other dessert products prepared or served with ice cream or frozen yogurt as an ingredient and all variations thereof within a geographical area consisting of for as long as franchisee is a party to any franchise agreement with franchisor anywhere including the location of the franchised business and after expiration or termination of the last franchise agreement between franchisee and franchisor within a ten mile radius from the location of the franchised business or location of any cold stone creamery restaurant of franchisor franchisor third party licensees or franchisor third party franchisees. the term cold stone creamery restaurant includes not only the restaurants now in existence but also those established at a later date. the term of this covenant will be extended by any time consumed in litigation to enforce it in both trial and appellate courts. if a court of competent jurisdiction determines that the restrictions in this paragraph are excessive in time geographic store csc non disclosure and non competition agreement of scope or otherwise the court may reduce the restriction to the level that provides the maximum restriction allowed by law. for purposes of this section confidential manual refers collectively to all of the confidential operations manuals recipe manuals operations guides and other instructions loaned or delivered to the franchisee during the term of the franchise agreement which may be memorialized in written or electronic format now existing and hereinafter developed and which may be modified periodically to reflect changes in the cold stone creamery system. interference. the undersigned agrees not to directly or indirectly for himself or herself or on behalf of any other person divert or attempt to divert any business or customer of any cold stone creamery restaurant to any competitor by direct or indirect inducement or perform any act which directly or indirectly could or may injure or prejudice the goodwill and reputation of cold stone creamery intellectual property or cold stone creamery system. irreparable harm to franchisor. the undersigned understands and agrees that if the undersigned breaches or threatens to breach any of his or her obligations under this agreement franchisor will be irreparably harmed and an award of monetary damages alone would be inadequate. therefore the undersigned agrees that franchisor shall be entitled to seek equitable relief including without limitation temporary preliminary and permanent injunctive relief and specific performance for any actual or threatened breach by the undersigned his or her affiliates or their respective officers directors shareholders employees or agents. the remedies provided under this section shall be in addition to and not exclusive of any other right or remedy available to franchisor under this agreement or otherwise including without limitation an award of attorneys fees expert witness fees and costs incurred by franchisor or its affiliates in connection with any dispute arising from or related to this agreement. validity conformity with applicable law. wherever possible each provision of this agreement shall be interpreted in a manner as to be valid under applicable law but if any provision of this agreement shall be invalid or prohibited thereunder the provision shall be ineffective only to the extent of the prohibition or invalidity without invalidating the remainder of this agreement. miscellaneous. a waiver. any waiver granted to the undersigned by franchisor excusing or reducing any obligation or restriction imposed under this agreement shall be evidenced by a writing executed by franchisor in order to be effective and shall only be effective to the extent specifically allowed in such writing. no waiver granted by franchisor shall constitute a continuing waiver. any waiver granted by franchisor shall be without prejudice to any other rights franchisor may have. the rights and remedies granted to franchisor are cumulative. no delay on the part of franchisor in exercising any right or remedy shall preclude franchisor from fully exercising such right or remedy or any other right or remedy. entire agreement amendment. this agreement sets forth the entire agreement made by the undersigned pertaining to the subject matter hereof fully superseding any and all prior store csc non disclosure and non competition agreement of agreements or understandings that may exist between the undersigned and the franchisor pertaining to such subject matter. no amendment change modification or variance to or from the terms and conditions set forth in this agreement shall be binding on the undersigned unless it is set forth in writing and duly executed by the undersigned and franchisor. this agreement shall be binding on the undersigned heirs executors successors and assigns as though originally executed by such persons. notices. all notices permitted or required under this agreement shall be in writing and shall be delivered by personal delivery courier such as fedex or ups or by. mail sent certified or registered mail return receipt requested to the address set forth in the first paragraph of this agreement with a courtesy copy sent via email or facsimile to the address set forth on the signature page below for the respective party to be noticed which address may be amended from time to time pursuant to the terms of this section. notices provided under this section. shall be deemed received upon personal delivery or delivery by courier and within five days after deposit in the. mail. governing law and venue. this agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the state of arizona without reference to conflict of laws principles. except for actions seeking injunctive relief which may be brought in any appropriate jurisdiction suit under this agreement shall only be brought in the state or federal courts located in maricopa county arizona. this choice of jurisdiction and venue is intended by the parties to be mandatory and not permissive in nature and to preclude the possibility of litigation between the parties with respect to or arising out of this agreement in any jurisdiction other than as specified in this section. each party waives any right it may have to assert the doctrine of forum non conveniens or similar doctrine or to object to the jurisdiction and venue with respect to any proceeding brought in accordance with this section. no assignment. the undersigned shall not assign or transfer any rights or obligations under this agreement without franchisor prior written consent which may be withheld in franchisor sole discretion. any assignment made in violation of this section. shall be void. counterparts facsimile signatures. this agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts each of which shall be deemed to be an original document as against the party whose signature appears thereon and all of which shall together constitute one and the same agreement. the signatures required for execution may be transmitted to the other party via facsimile or email and such signature shall be deemed a duplicate original shall be effective upon receipt by the other party may be admitted in evidence and shall fully bind the party and person making such signature. in witness whereof the parties hereto have executed this agreement by their duly authorized representatives with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind the respective party and to perform all obligations under this agreement. name store csc non disclosure and non competition agreement of by name an individual date address street address city state zip phone xxx xxx xxxx email xxxxxxxx xxxx.xxx store document exhibit to the franchise disclosure document collateral assignment and irrevocable special power of attorney of store document collateral assignment and irrevocable special power of attorney this collateral assignment and irrevocable special power of attorney assignment is entered into on effective date in accordance with the terms of that certain franchise agreement dated as amended franchise agreement by and between a franchisee and kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company franchisor executed concurrently with this assignment and under which franchisor granted franchisee the right to own and operate a cold stone creamery restaurant located at restaurant. for value received franchisee hereby assigns to franchisor its affiliates subsidiaries successors and assigns all of franchisee right title and interest in and to i the telephone numbers and listings which include those certain telephone numbers and regular yellow pages special classified or other telephone directory listings used at any time in connection with the operation of the restaurant ii any website page or social media addresses and accounts including but not limited to a facebook page or twitter account that contains any term or any mark confusingly similar to a trademark or other intellectual property owned or licensed by franchisor and iii any corporation limited liability company partnership or other entity name or trade name filed or formed by franchisee that contains any trademark or other intellectual property owned or licensed by franchisor each an entity name. this assignment is for collateral purposes only and except as specified herein franchisor shall have no liability or obligation of any kind whatsoever arising from or in connection with this assignment unless franchisor shall notify the i telephone company and or the listing agencies with which franchisee has placed telephone directory listings all such entities are collectively referred to herein as the telephone company ii webmaster webhost for the website or social media account and iii secretary of state corporation commission or other state government agency that handles the filing of entity formation documents to effectuate the assignment pursuant to the terms hereof. franchisee hereby appoints franchisor as his her its attorney of fact and grants franchisor an irrevocable special power of attorney coupled with an interest with full power and authority for the purpose of executing documents or taking such action as necessary or appropriate as franchisee might or could do if personally present hereby ratifying all that franchisor as franchisee attorney in fact shall lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue of this special power of attorney to obtain protect maintain or enforce franchisor intellectual property rights if franchisor is for any reason unable to obtain franchisee cooperation or assistance. the special power of attorney granted by this assignment shall survive the dissolution death incompetence or disability of franchisee and the termination or expiration of the franchise agreement or this assignment. upon i termination of the franchise agreement for any reason or ii expiration of the franchise agreement without renewal or extension franchisor shall have the right and is hereby empowered to effectuate the assignment of the telephone numbers and listings website and or social media account and entity name. in such event franchisee shall have no further right title or interest in the telephone numbers and listings or the website and or social media account and shall remain liable to the telephone company for all past due fees and charges owing to the telephone company on or before the effective date of the assignment hereunder. franchisee agrees and acknowledges that as between franchisor and franchisee franchisor shall have the sole right to and interest in the telephone numbers and listings of store document website and or social media accounts and entity name upon termination or expiration of the franchise agreement. franchisee appoints franchisor as franchisee true and lawful attorney in fact to direct the telephone company webmaster webhost and state government agency to assign same to franchisor and execute such documents and take such actions as may be necessary to effectuate the assignment. upon such event franchisee shall immediately instruct the i telephone company to assign the telephone numbers and listings to franchisor the webmaster webhost to assign the website and or social media account to franchisor and iii state government agency to allow franchisor to file the necessary documents to change the entity name. if franchisee fails to promptly direct the i telephone company to assign the telephone numbers and listings to franchisor ii webmaster webhost to assign the website or social media account to franchisor and or iii file the necessary documents with the appropriate state government agency to remove franchisor trademarks or other intellectual property from the franchisee entity name franchisor shall direct the appropriate parties to effectuate the assignment contemplated hereunder to franchisor. the parties agree that the telephone company webmaster webhost and appropriate state government agency may accept franchisor written direction the franchise agreement or this assignment as conclusive proof of franchisor exclusive rights in and to the telephone numbers and listings website and or social media accounts and franchisor authority to file the necessary documents to remove franchisor trademark or other intellectual property from the entity name and that such assignment shall be made automatically and effective immediately upon telephone company webmaster webhost or state government agency receipt of such notice from franchisor or franchisee. the parties further agree that if the telephone company webmaster webhost or state government agency requires that the parties execute an assignment form or other documentation at the time of termination or expiration of the franchise agreement franchisor execution of such forms or documentation on behalf of franchisee shall effectuate franchisee consent and agreement to the assignment. the parties agree that at any time after the date hereof they will perform such acts and execute and deliver such documents as may be necessary to assist in or accomplish the assignment described herein upon termination or expiration of the franchise agreement. in witness whereof each party hereto by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind his or her respective party without further consent or approval of any kind has duly executed and delivered this assignment as of the effective date. assignor franchisee a by name title state of county of on before me personally appeared known to me or proved to me on the oath of or through to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he she executed the same in his her their authorized of store document capacity and that by his her signature on the instrument the person or the entity upon behalf of which the person acted executed the instrument. certify under penalty of perjury under the laws of the state of that the foregoing paragraph is true and correct. witness my hand and official seal. signature of notary public seal acknowledged by assignee franchisor kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company by name title store document exhibit to the franchise disclosure document amendment to franchise agreement for non traditional locations excluding those colorado branded with another affiliated brand store document of first amendment to franchise agreement for non traditional locations excluding those colorado branded with another affiliated brand this first amendment to franchise agreement first amendment dated first amendment effective date to the franchise agreement dated collectively the agreement for the non traditional cold stone creamery location at location by and between kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company franchisor and franchisee is entered into by such parties to amend the agreement as set forth in this first amendment. to the extent this first amendment contains terms and conditions that differ from those contained in the agreement this first amendment shall control. the parties agree that a concept or principle covered in this first amendment shall apply and be incorporated into all other provisions of the agreement in which the concept or principle is also applicable notwithstanding the absence of any specific cross reference thereto. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this first amendment will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the agreement. the last sentence of the second unnumbered paragraph in section. location of the franchised business no exclusive territory or other rights is hereby deleted and replaced with the following this agreement is limited to the operation of one non traditional restaurant unless otherwise amended and does not grant you the right to buy own or operate additional restaurants. section. training program is hereby amended to add the following after the last sentence in section. notwithstanding the foregoing for non traditional locations the total number of days of in store training will be three days. the first sentence in section. initial franchise fee is hereby deleted and replaced with the following the initial franchise fee is thousand dollars initial franchise fee. paragraph. of section. transfer franchise fee is hereby deleted and replaced with the following. potential transferee as defined in section. circa receiving this agreement as may be amended in connection with a full transfer as defined in section. a must pay to us a transfer franchise fee of five thousand dollars transfer franchise fee. the first sentence in section. grand opening marketing is hereby deleted and replaced with the following five thousand dollars grand opening marketing is payable to us on the earlier of i prior to you executing a lease for the premises where the franchised business will be located or ii prior to construction commencing at the premises where the franchised business will be located. except as set forth in this first amendment the terms and provisions of the agreement shall remain in full force and effect. store document of signature page follows in witness whereof each party hereto by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind his or her respective party without further consent or approval of any kind has duly executed and delivered this first amendment as of the first amendment effective date. franchisor kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company by name title franchisee a by name title by name title exhibit to the franchise disclosure document rocky mountain chocolate factory addendum to franchise disclosure document and amendment to franchise agreement rocky mountain chocolate factory addendum to franchise disclosure document the following modifications are to the cold stone creamery franchise disclosure document and may supplement certain portions of the franchise disclosure document and the franchise agreement. item the franchisor and any parents predecessors and affiliates kahala franchise corporation entered into a master license agreement dated august master license agreement with rocky mountain chocolate factory incorporated rmcf under which selected franchised and company owned cold stone creamery stores are allowed to sell rmcf products in addition to the cold stone creamery product offering colorado branded stores. the master license agreement was assigned to kahala franchising effective august. under the master license agreement rmcf has permitted us to grant to certain of our franchisees or company or affiliate owned cold stone creamery stores the right to use the rmcf marks and the rmcf methods as defined below in connection with the sale of selected rmcf products within the premises of existing cold stone creamery stores and in new colorado branded stores. as of november there were cold stone creamery franchises that sold rmcf products. rmcf has developed proprietary methods rmcf methods for the sale of gourmet chocolate and other premium confectionary products featuring rocky mountain chocolate factory brand candy that you purchase from rmcf factory in durango colorado factory candy and confectionary items that you may make in your cold stone creamery store such as caramel apples store candy collectively the rmcf products under the rocky mountain chocolate factory name and associated trademarks and service marks the rmcf marks. you may choose to sell the traditional line or the full line of rmcf products in your store. all stores must be developed and operated to our specifications and standards and sell only those products that we authorize. cold stone creamery store that is authorized to sell the rmcf products is also referred to as the franchised business or the colorado branded stores. in order to sell the rmcf products and use the rmcf methods at your store certain of the terms and conditions of your franchise agreement with us must be modified. you will be required to sign an amendment to cold stone creamery franchise agreement for colorado branded store in the form attached as exhibit amendment. rmcf is an unaffiliated third party. we have no ownership rights or interests in the rmcf marks the rmcf methods or the rmcf products. we have negotiated the master license agreement to among other things permit us to sublicense to our franchisees the rights to use the rmcf marks and the rmcf methods and to sell the rmcf products in their cold stone creamery stores. nonetheless those rights and our ability to sublicense them to you remain subject at all times to the master license agreement remaining in full force and effect. if for any reason the master license agreement is terminated prior to the expiration of the term of your amendment your rights to use the rmcf marks and the rmcf methods and to sell the rmcf products will immediately cease. item initial fees there are two types of rmcf product lines one is the full line of rmcf products and the other is the traditional line of rmcf products. the traditional line of rmcf products offers a limited version of the full line of rmcf products. the initial franchise fee to sell the full line of rmcf products in your cold stone creamery store is for the rmcf portion of your colorado branded store. this fee is payable in full to us when you sign the amendment to franchise agreement to sell rmcf products. this fee is in addition to the initial franchise fee you are required to pay for a cold stone creamery store. the initial franchise fee to sell the traditional line of rmcf products in your cold stone creamery store is for the rmcf portion of your colorado branded store. this fee is in addition to the initial franchise fee you are required to pay for a cold stone creamery store. the initial franchise fees to sell rmcf products in your cold stone creamery store are non refundable and there are no discounts for eligible military or organizations. item other fees column type of fee column amount column due date column remarks royalty fee and surcharge from the rmcf portion of your colorado branded store note of gross sales plus a maximum surcharge of per week note withdrawn electronically from your designated bank account weekly note rmcf gross sales include all revenue earned from the sale of rmcf products in your colorado branded store excluding sales tax and authorized refunds credits and allowances. transfer fee for the rocky mountain chocolate factory portion of a colorado branded store upon closing of the transfer note notes the sale of rmcf products is included in the definition of gross sales as set forth in your franchise agreement for which you will pay us royalties. we in turn are responsible for any payments to rmcf attributable to your sale of rmcf products. these fees are collected by us are payable to us and are non refundable. the fees are uniformly imposed by us however we may in our sole discretion reduce or waive an ongoing fee for a defined period of time. item estimated initial investment your estimated initial investment sale of rmcf products within existing cold stone creamery store column type of expenditure column amount column method of payment column when due column to whom payment is to be made initial franchise fee note to lump sum upon signing the amendment us travel and living expenses while training to as incurred as incurred airlines hotels restaurants column type of expenditure column amount column method of payment column when due column to whom payment is to be made architectural fee to lump sum before opening rmcf portion of colorado branded store third party vendor leasehold improvements to lump sum before opening rmcf portion of colorado branded store contractor exterior and interior signage to lump sum before opening rmcf portion of colorado branded store third party vendor or us equipment and fixtures to lump sum before opening rmcf portion of colorado branded store third party vendor or us pos system to lump sum before opening rmcf portion of colorado branded store third party vendor initial inventory to lump sum before opening rmcf portion of colorado branded store rmcf employee uniforms to lump sum before opening rmcf portion of colorado branded store third party vendor grand opening advertising to lump sum before opening rmcf portion of colorado branded store third party vendor permits and licenses to lump sum before opening rmcf portion of colorado branded store governmental entities total to for existing cold stone creamery stores there are typically no additional real property expenses security deposits or utility deposits to convert to a colorado branded store unless required by the landlord. note these estimates are based on constructing the required leasehold improvements within an approximately square foot area within your existing store and assume the availability of electrical requirements of amps phase and hvac of one ton per square feet. you may but are not required to at your own cost and expense use our designated and approved third party architect and project management firm for the design and construction oversight of your colorado branded stores. item restrictions on sources of products and services except as stated below you have no obligation to purchase or lease goods services supplies fixtures equipment inventory or computer hardware relating to the establishment or operation of your colorado branded store from us or from any of our designees and you have the right to purchase them from any approved supplier or for those products for which no approved supplier exists from any supplier whose products meet the minimum standards established by us or rmcf. we will require you to use rmcf designated and approved vendors for your purchases of rmcf products and other items associated with the sale of rmcf products in your cold stone creamery store. rmcf is the designated supplier of factory candy which includes chocolates and other candy manufactured by rmcf and some cooking supplies for making store candy. apart from the factory candy sold by rmcf described above neither we nor rmcf nor our respective officers or directors own an equity interest in the companies that are vendors or suppliers of the goods and services relating to the sale of rmcf products. rmcf reserves the right to receive rebates or allowances from designated or approved suppliers based on purchases made by rmcf franchisees and rmcf also reserves the right to receive rebates or allowances based on purchases made by you. these rebates may range from to. any rebates and allowances will be included in rmcf general revenue and may be used by rmcf to benefit the rmcf system in its sole and absolute discretion. we do not receive rebates or allowances from suppliers on your purchase of rmcf products or supplies. rmcf derives revenue from the sale of factory candy store candy ingredients packaging materials other items and certain services to you. in the fiscal year ended february rmcf revenue from purchases by franchisees was or of its total revenues of. rmcf is not affiliated with any approved or designated suppliers. except as described above it does not derive income based on any required purchases or leases except that in an effort to make sources or supplies available to its franchisees and to you and to monitor and maintain consistency throughout the system it may negotiate with approved vendors from whom you can purchase items which meet our specifications. rmcf may collect a fee from approved vendors on the items its franchisees and you purchase from approved vendors. these vendors may sell you various items raw materials for the preparation of store candy such as fudge brittles and caramel packaging items such as bags and tins and other items. we estimate that any purchases by you for which rmcf collects a fee will constitute less than of your total cost of operating your cold stone creamery store. except as described above rmcf does not negotiate purchase arrangements with suppliers for the benefit of its franchisees or for your benefit although it reserves the right to do so in the future. rmcf has no purchasing or distribution cooperatives. rmcf does not give its franchisees or you any material benefits based on use of designated or approved sources or suppliers. in addition your colorado branded store must be consistent in color design and style with the standards and specifications adopted and approved by us and rmcf and we and rmcf may modify those standards periodically. you must maintain the appearance and atmosphere of your colorado branded store and the equipment and premises used in connection with your colorado branded store in accordance with the standards we and rmcf may adopt from time to time. any variations in color design style appearance or atmosphere must be approved in writing by us. rmcf current standards and specifications are included in the rmcf operating manual which will be provided to you. you must purchase all of the factory candy and ingredients for store candy that you sell from rmcf or a source we designate. if you would like to purchase or lease any food supplies equipment signage decor and other goods that will be used to sell rmcf products from a vendor or supplier that is not on our or rmcf then current list of approved vendors and suppliers you must follow the approval process for suppliers described in item of this franchise disclosure document. item franchisee obligations this table lists your principal obligations under the franchise and other agreements. it will help you find more detailed information about your obligations in these agreements and in other items of this disclosure document. obligation section in rmcf amendment disclosure document item a site selection and acquisition lease not applicable and. pre opening purchases and leases and. site development and other pre opening requirements and. initial and ongoing training. opening and. fees and. compliance with standards and policies confidential operations manuals and. trademarks and proprietary information and i restrictions on products services offered and. warranty and customer service requirements not applicable not applicable. territorial development and sales quotas not applicable. ongoing product service purchases not applicable. maintenance appearance and remodeling requirements not applicable and. insurance. advertising and. indemnification and. owner participation management staffing not applicable and. records and reports not applicable and. inspections and audits not applicable and. transfer not applicable and. renewal not applicable and. post termination obligations. non competition covenants and obligation section in rmcf amendment disclosure document item. dispute resolution not applicable item financing we do not directly or indirectly offer you financing or guarantee any of your obligations. we do not require any security interests to be given by you as we do not offer any financing arrangement. in addition we do not have any financing arrangement with the franchisee and therefore we do not intend to sell assign or discount to a third party any financing arrangement. because there is no financing arrangement between us and the franchisee there are no waiver of defenses or other legal rights executed by the franchisee. we do not arrange financing from other sources therefore we do not receive direct or indirect payments from placing financing. no part of your initial investment to develop or convert to a colorado branded store will be financed by us. rmcf may or may not offer financing for a portion of your initial investment if you are converting an existing cold stone creamery store to a colorado branded store and if you meet rmcf conditions for eligibility. if rmcf offers financing the terms of any such financing would be between you and rmcf. we receive no benefit from rmcf if they provide financing to you. item franchisor assistance advertising computer systems and training except as disclosed below kahala franchising is not required to provide you with any assistance. rmcf training before you open your colorado branded store one of rmcf designated trainers will train you and at your option your general manager or one other person to operate the colorado branded store using rmcf methods rmcf training program. the designated trainers include certain qualified employees area representatives and rmcf field consultants. the rmcf training program will consist of the topics outlined below. however certain portions of the rmcf training program may be altered or eliminated and or the number of hours may be adjusted depending upon your background and your ability to comprehend the information. rmcf colorado brand training program column subject column hours of classroom training column hours of on the job training column location introduction to rocky mountain chocolate factory durango colorado or another specified location product knowledge candy identification durango colorado or another specified location column subject column hours of classroom training column hours of on the job training column location rmcf factory tour durango colorado or another specified location rmcf customer service department ordering and shipping durango colorado or another specified location inventory control daily record keeping vendor sheet. durango colorado or another specified location cooking durango colorado or another specified location introduction to retail customer service durango colorado or another specified location rmcf accounting policies. durango colorado or another specified location survey. durango colorado or another specified location online tools. durango colorado or another specified location merchandising and marketing techniques durango colorado or another specified location durango colorado or another specified location employees hiring firing and maintaining durango colorado or another specified location total. rmcf and other designated trainers hold training classes for cold stone franchisees opening a colorado branded store on an as needed basis. you must attend training after you sign the amendment and before you begin selling rmcf products in your colorado branded store. if you attend training at rmcf headquarters in durango colorado the primary instructors are donna coupe rmcf vice president of franchise support since june fred sabatini our director of franchise support and operations since june mairead mcguire manager of retail operations since july heather demacopoulos rmcf franchise field consultant since september katie johnson franchise field consultant since march. wendy smith our franchise field consultant since march laura trujillo rmcf franchise field consultant since september erika lightburne rmcf colorado brand liason since april and lisa taylor rmcf director of franchise support since august. the training material consists of written video and audiotape instruction. the initial training program includes hands on training in a mock retail store in rmcf training center if you attend training in durango colorado. if you attend training elsewhere the on the job training will be conducted at a colorado branded store in your store market area on a schedule agreed upon in advance. we will try to assign you to a training store that is geographically convenient to you. attendees must satisfactorily complete the rmcf training program in our and rmcf discretion. the training classes are held daily for four consecutive days. the consequence of your failure to successfully complete the rmcf training program to our and rmcf satisfaction is that you will not be permitted to convert your cold stone creamery store to a colorado branded store. neither you nor anyone else attending the rmcf training program will be deemed to be rmcf franchisee or employee for any purpose. attendance at the entire training program is mandatory for you and either your general manager or at your option one other person. all of your attendees must complete to our and rmcf satisfaction the rmcf training program. all managers officers and employees will be subject to a covenant not to compete and confidentiality and other obligations in the form attached as attachment to exhibit. we and rmcf may require you to attend additional training or bear the costs associated with sending a trainer to your cold stone creamery store for additional training if you have not satisfactorily completed the training program. we do not charge a fee for two individuals to attend the rmcf training program. all training program attendees bear their own travel lodging and meal expenditures in connection with attending the training program. additional training programs and refresher courses may be required from time to time. you will be required to bear your own travel lodging and meal expenditures in connection with attendance. in addition you must attend at your expense all annual and other meetings and conference calls that we determine are mandatory for all colorado branded stores or colorado branded stores located within a particular geographic region. we may impose a charge for your failure to attend those programs courses meetings and conference calls. rmcf operating manual before you open your colorado branded store we or rmcf will loan to you a copy of rmcf operating manual rmcf operating manual which contains standards of operations the equipment and fixtures required to operate the franchise operating procedures and policies. the rmcf operating manual for colorado branded stores contains pages. the table of contents of the rmcf operating manual is contained in attachment of exhibit to this franchise disclosure document. you must operate your colorado branded store strictly in accordance with the operating procedures and policies as contained in the rmcf operating manual as it may be amended from time to time. the rmcf operating manual is strictly confidential and must be returned promptly to us or rmcf upon your store ceasing to be a colorado branded store. item territory you will not receive an exclusive territory. you may face competition from i rmcf franchisees or rmcf company owned outlets ii other cold stone creamery stores that will also sell rmcf products and iii other channels of distribution that rmcf controls. we and or our affiliates may establish other franchised or company owned colorado branded stores that may compete with your location including across the street from your location or in the same venue as your location. one or more future colorado branded stores may have an adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of existing colorado branded stores including your colorado branded store. we will endeavor to resolve any conflicts which arise from the operation of your colorado branded store concerning our distribution activities or involving territory customer or support. if you have a conflict you should contact the legal department for their independent review and decision. conflict cases will be addressed on a case by case basis. the amendment does not provide you with any options rights of first refusal or similar rights to acquire additional colorado branded stores. there are no restrictions on the customers to whom you may sell the rmcf products but all sales must be made at your colorado branded store premises. you may not sell any rmcf products from or to any location other than your colorado branded store premises. item trademarks colorado branded stores will have the right to use the following rmcf marks that are owned by rmcf and registered on the principal register of the uspto trademark registration number registration date rocky mountain chocolate factory august rocky mountain chocolate factory and design september rmcf has filed all required affidavits and renewals for these marks. there are no agreements currently in effect which limit our right to use or license the use of the rmcf marks which are in any manner material to you. there are no currently effective determinations of the patent and trademark office the trademark trial and appeal board the trademark administrator of any state or any court or any pending opposition or cancellation proceeding or any pending material litigation involving the rmcf marks which is relevant to their use by you. we have entered into the master license agreement with rmcf. this master license agreement gives us the right to use and to license our franchisees to use the rmcf marks listed above solely in connection with the sale of rmcf products at colorado branded stores. either party may terminate the master license agreement upon the occurrence of a material breach of the agreement or upon certain other events. in the event of termination both we and our franchisees must immediately discontinue any further use of the rmcf marks. there are no superior prior rights or infringing uses of the principal rmcf marks actually known to rmcf which rights or uses could materially affect your use of the principal rmcf marks in any state. there are no agreements currently in effect that significantly limit rmcf rights to use or license the use of the principal rmcf marks. you must promptly notify us of any suspected unauthorized use of or challenge to the validity of the rmcf marks or any challenge to rmcf ownership of or right to use or license others to use the rmcf marks. rmcf will have the right to direct and control any administrative proceeding or litigation involving the rmcf marks including any settlement thereof. rmcf has the right but not the obligation to take action against uses by others that may constitute infringement of the rmcf marks. we or rmcf will defend you against any third party claim suit or demand arising out of your use of the rmcf marks. if we in our sole discretion determine that you have used the rmcf marks in a manner authorized by the amendment the cost of such defense including the cost of any judgment or settlement will be borne by us. if we in our sole discretion determine that you have not used the rmcf marks in a manner authorized by the amendment the cost of such defense including the cost of any judgment or settlement will be borne by you. in the event of any litigation relating to your use of the rmcf marks you must execute any and all documents and do such acts as may in our opinion be necessary to carry out such defense or prosecution including but not limited to becoming a nominal party in any legal action. except to the extent that such litigation is the result of your use of the rmcf marks in a manner inconsistent with the terms of the amendment we will reimburse you for your out of pocket litigation costs in doing such acts. we or rmcf may require you to use different trademarks for use in identifying the rmcf products if the rmcf marks can no longer be used or if rmcf in its sole discretion determines that substitution of different proprietary marks will be beneficial to the rmcf system. in such circumstances the use of the substituted trademarks will be governed by the terms of the amendment. item patents copyrights and proprietary information rmcf claims all statutory copyrights that attach to all or part of any original materials used in the rmcf system including their rmcf operating manual advertising and promotional materials and all other written materials we provide you. to date rmcf has not registered any items for copyright protection. however their copyright protection will extend for years from the date of each item creation or years from the date of each item publication whichever is shorter. the rmcf operating manual is an integral part of the rmcf system licensed to you under the terms of the amendment. all of the disclosures appearing in item of this franchise disclosure document also apply with respect to a the rmcf operating manual and any confidential information you may receive about rmcf or the manner in which it conducts business. you and your general manager principals officers managers and employees of your colorado branded store also must sign rmcf confidentiality and non competition agreement in the form appearing as exhibit to the amendment. item restrictions on what the franchisee may sell you must offer and sell at your colorado branded store the rmcf products in a manner consistent with rmcf comprehensive standards and requirements as applied by us to colorado branded stores. in addition we may incorporate new products and services that we believe will be successful. you will be obligated to offer and sell those new rmcf products and to participate in any rmcf local regional and promotional programs initiatives and campaigns adopted by us in which we require you to participate. you may not offer or sell any products or services specified by us in any configuration form or manner including items for resale other than that specifically approved by us. you may not market your colorado branded store or use the rmcf marks on the internet or in any other form of electronic communication. item renewal termination transfer and dispute resolution the franchise relationship this table lists certain important provisions of the franchise and related agreements. you should read these provisions in the agreements attached to this disclosure document. rocky mountain chocolate factory amendment to franchise agreement this table lists certain important provisions of the amendment. you should read these provisions in the amendment attached to this disclosure document. provision section in amendment to franchise agreement summary a length of the term opening paragraph remaining term of your franchise agreement. renewal or extension of the term opening paragraph renewal terms of your franchise agreement. requirements for you to renew or extend not applicable not applicable. termination by you not applicable not applicable. termination by us without cause. county immediately upon termination of the master license agreement. termination by us with cause. a and. b see and. cause definedcurable defaults. a and. b failure to maintain standards unauthorized business or sale of unauthorized products failure to obtain consent as required by amendment failure to comply with the rmcf operating manual breach of related agreements failure to pay rmcf for factory candy. cause defined non curable defaults. abandonment of the sale of rmcf products misuse of the rmcf marks unauthorized disclosure of confidential information unauthorized transfer of your colorado branded stores termination of the franchise agreement transfer of your store without transfer of the rmcf rights. i your obligations on termination non renewal. east cease to identify as a colorado branded stores return rmcf operating manual cease using any rmcf proprietary information and the trade dress pay all amounts outstanding to us and our affiliates within days. assignment of the contract by us not applicable not applicable. transfer by you definition not applicable not applicable. our approval of transfer by you not applicable not applicable. conditions for our approval of transfer not applicable not applicable. our right of first refusal to acquire your business not applicable not applicable. our option to purchase your business not applicable not applicable provision section in amendment to franchise agreement summary. your death or disability not applicable not applicable. non competition covenants during the term of the franchise. you and your principals and their immediate family members may not own operate or have any relationship with any business that is the same or similar or offers products or services which are the same or similar to a cold stone creamery or a rocky mountain chocolate factory store collectively similar business nor employ or seek to employ persons already employed by us or by any of our franchisees. non competition covenants after the franchise is terminated or expires. you and your principals may not for a period of year following the amendment own operate or have any relationship with a similar business which is located i at the colorado branded stores premises ii within a mile radius of the colorado branded store premises or iii within a mile radius of any other store operated by us rmcf or any of our respective franchisees or affiliates at the time you signed the franchise agreement. modification of the agreement not applicable not applicable. integration merger clause not applicable not applicable. dispute resolution by arbitration or mediation not applicable not applicable. choice of forum not applicable not applicable. choice of law not applicable not applicable note section references are to the amendment to cold stone creamery franchise agreement for colorado branded store unless stated otherwise. this table must be read in conjunction with the table relating to the franchise agreement in this item. the franchise agreement provisions also are applicable and will apply to the sale of rmcf products at your colorado branded store. item financial performance representations the ftc franchise rule permits a franchisor to provide information about the actual or potential financial performance of its franchised and or franchisor owned outlets if there is a reasonable basis for the information and if the information is included in the disclosure document. financial performance information that differs from that included in item may be given only if a franchisor provides the actual records of an existing outlet you are considering buying or a franchisor supplements the information provided in this item for example by providing information about possible performance at a particular location or under particular circumstances. we do not make any representations about a franchisee future financial performance or the past financial performance of company owned or franchised outlets. we also do not authorize our employees or representatives to make any such representations either orally or in writing. if you are purchasing an existing outlet however we may provide you with the actual records of that outlet. if you receive any other financial performance information or projections of your future income you should report it to the franchisor management by contacting john wuycheck kahala franchising. via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona the federal trade commission and the appropriate state regulatory agencies. item outlets and franchisee information table number systemwide outlet summary for years to united states column column column column column outlet type year outlets at the start of the year outlets at the end of the year net change franchised company owned total outlets table number transfers of outlets from franchisees to new owners other than the franchisor for years to column column column state year number of transfers arizona california colorado florida indiana maryland new jersey new york north carolina ohio tennessee utah virginia virginia wisconsin total table number status of franchised outlets for years to col. col. col. col. col. col. col. col. col. state year outlets at start of year outlets opened termina tions non renewals reacquired by franchisor ceased operations other reasons outlets at end of the year arizona california colorado florida idaho iowa illinois indiana kansas kentucky maryland michigan missouri nebraska new jersey new york north carolina ohio oregon tennessee texas utah virginia west virginia wisconsin wyoming total table number status of company owned outlets for years to col. col. col. col. col. col. col. col. state year outlets at start of year outlets opened outlets reacquired from franchisee outlets closed outlets sold to franchisee outlets at end of the year all states totals table number projected openings as of november column column column column state franchise agreements signed but outlet not opened projected new franchised outlets in the next fiscal year projected new company owned outlets in the next fiscal year arizona illinois month texas utah washington total we had two franchisees who had an outlet terminated canceled not renewed or otherwise voluntarily or involuntarily ceased to do business under the franchise agreements during the year ending november. franchisees who had an outlet terminated canceled not renewed or otherwise voluntarily or involuntarily ceased to do business during the year ending november company name franchisee name city state telephone number or email address gobogh incorporated dewayne glazier jared glazier draper utah franchisees who had an outlet transfer during the year ending november prior company name prior franchisee names prior franchisee city prior franchisee state prior franchisee phone martin corey and hari demissie martin corey martin hari demissie martin escondido california khusmehr incorporated prabhdeep mann ramneek singh stockton california demissie martin hari hari demissie martin escondido california total accounting and consulting llc ahmad shaheen sarah najjar delaware lewis center oh dolce gusto llc roberto coppolecchia cortlandt manor new york stone properties. chris kesler darcy wride kevin kesler paul norman north ogden ogden paradise pleasant view utah ab holdings group llc allan bevans huntington west virginia jai shree laxmi incorporated pravin patel mount sterling key ohana enterprises incorporated allison henderson wadsworth jeff wadsworth julie kirkland centennial englewood colorado radha krishna llc harsh patel trushna patel peoria arizona we have not had any franchisees who have not communicated with us for the week period before the date of this disclosure document. we had two franchisees who had their franchise agreements terminated canceled not renewed or otherwise voluntarily or involuntarily ceased to do business under the franchise agreements during the year ending november for a store that never opened and we had no franchisees that transferred their franchise agreements during the year ending november for a store that was not yet open. franchisees who had their franchise agreements terminated during the year ending november for a store that never opened during the year ending november none if you buy this franchise your contact information may be disclosed to other buyers when you leave the franchise system. some of our franchisees have signed confidentiality clauses during the last three fiscal years. in some instances current and former franchisees sign provisions restricting their ability to speak openly about their experience with the cold stone creamery franchise system and the sale of rmcf products in their stores. you may wish to speak with current and former franchisees but be aware that not all such franchisees will be able to communicate with you. cold stone creamery franchisees who sold rmcf products in their stores franchisee list as of november the name of the franchisee store address and store telephone number of the open stores are listed below franchise company owners address city state zip phone hamedullah omedullah and ahmadi mariyam mariyam ahmadi omedull ah hamedullah clairemont drive san diego california rayn drzr corporation dilawar khan rabia khan dublin boulevard dublin california gill stone incorporated jaskaran singh navdip kaur west th street tracy california osborne ventures llc jeff osborne pamela osborne happy valley road peoria arizona cooler south enterprises llc chad eads town square boulevard asheville north carolina oospecka llc jeremy yarbrough larry yarbrough south sligo street cortez colorado rock and ricky llc ricky garcia us highway aberdee north carolina nice creams incorporated yolanda castro imperial avenue el centro california csc webster llc allan lanny auchter ridge road webster new york silver scoop chocolate llc nishantha vithana shermila vithana state route hacketts town new jersey murali ramanathan murali ramanathan mur ali ramanathan sunrise boulevard citrus heights california ahluwalia ranjit ranjit ahluwalia dale road modesto california the sweet place llc bart place jolyn place chase place audra place dalton place north main street layton utah red emerald equity llc donald webb tamara webb mark.hatc errolyn.hatch state road america fork utah riffle legendairy creameries llc adam riffle jessica riffle andrew riffle kalie sanders rigby road miamisb urg oh zileli llc feridun zilelioglu washington avenue pleasant ville new york twin scoop. rick cruz rob cruz north-west th avenue hillsboro or jolly group valpo llc russell dewes michael jorden candace jorden silhavy road valparai so in ilec llc ebru savas mustafa center drive san marcos california scott omer buddy omer scott wildwood drive jefferso city month our creamery incorporated dilafroz ahmed waliul chowdhury zahir mahmud arshad khwaja main street gaithers burg medicinae doctor chicago scoops llc jonathan shulkin thomas watkins antonio gracias kyle welch troy road edwards ville illinois gobogh incorporated jared glazier dewayne glazier west center park drive west jordan utah marsella llc james markino michael biasella park lane hudson oh ice cream. paul deininger debbie deininger louisiana cantera parkway san antonio texas chicago scoops llc antonio gracias jonathan shulkin kyle welch thomas watkins pearson drive hudson wisconsin kpog incorporated kelli turner jeremy petey helm south hover street longmo new testament colorado kat enterprises llc kathryn harr andrea watros hill road north pickerin gton oh foods in the ville. alan rizza robert hayes moro street manhatt an kansas williams louisiana mode incorporated shawn williams cindy williams farnam street omaha north-east mission investment company allan emerly massachusetts street lawrenc kansas tracks investments llc rodney shoaf sheryl highwoods boulevard greensb oro north carolina shoaf sonny boua baccam incorporated santhiphone sonny baccam boua baccam. th street olathe kansas stone cold confections logan lc josh christensen eldo haacke logan utah jolly group llc russell dewes michael jorden candace jorden west th avenue crown point in chicago scoops llc thomas watkins antonio gracias kyle welch jonathan shulkin main street tooele utah niagara investments company. mike fitzgerald thomas fitzgerald jeraldi north-east fitzgerald yosemite street lone tree colorado marsella llc james markino michael biasella portage street north-west north canton oh kulwant llc kulwant benipal state street west lafayett in fun rockaway incorporated gayan ondaatjie mount hope avenue rockaw ay new jersey creamery llc david medlock jill medlock north dakota street casper wyoming rbc ice cream llc robin christensen beck christensen main street price utah mac month llc maclaine morris lloyd expressway evansvill in magic stone creamery llc kentish lee nancy lee cheney drive twin falls idaho scoops apples incorporated faizi haque narmeen haque gratiot avenue roseville michigan alk guild llc chad price hospital drive dublin oh temple group incorporated jeremiah temple kassie temple south th ammon idaho quick pick incorporated nageeb alhaj central avenue dodge city kansas chicago scoops llc kyle welch jonathan shulkin thomas main street spanish fork utah watkins antonio gracias price lane jana jenson lane. price jana jenson price bountiful utah wessco enterprises incorporated douglas wessley rhonda wessley maize road wichita kansas khalid and sons limited syed khalid rizvi syed yawar khalid route somers new york benevedes incorporated annette benevedes th avenue hanford california kamilia llc kami tan eric tan. hurstbourne parkway louisvill key dev kush incorporated raman patel mannheim road rosemo new testament illinois dattani creamery incorporated vijay.dattani international drive orlando floruit om ii management incorporated alok sarwal anjali sarwal hampden avenue denver colorado hamburglex csc llc bhavesh patel sir barton way lexingto key webb group llc tamara webb donald webb north redwood road saratoga springs utah macag flemington partners llc richard agnolet scott macmillan us highway flemingt on new jersey fama enterprises llc fabio demelo redwood road south jordan utah joy llc jianliang yu jing yu clay terrace boulevard carmel in mmm creamery corporation mohammed ali razai akm masud hasan mustaque ahmed western avenue albany new york wessco enterprises incorporated rhonda wessley douglas wessley taft street wichita kansas the sweet place llc audra place bart place jolyn place chase place dalton place th street ogden utah beasley enterprises llc daniel beasley nathania beasley pullman square huntingt on west virginia marsella llc james markino michael medina road fairlawn oh biasella. sweis investments llc gassab sweis monroe street detroit michigan jai shree laxmi incorporated jalpa patel hitesh patel mall road lexingto key we all scream llc jeremy petey helm kelli turner colfax avenue lakewoo colorado the sweet place llc bart place jolyn place chase place audra place dalton place clinton utah ps ms ventures llc sambasivarao bellam srinadh chowdary.kandr twin rivers road columbi a medicinae doctor garrett elizabeth elizabeth garrett olive boulevard creve coeur month glazier jared dewayne jared glazier dewayne glazier south state street murray utah glendale desserts llc bailey murphy jennifer murphy th avenue glendale arizona ice creamery incorporated lory axtman lacey bilbruck west rancho vista boulevard palmdal california williams louisiana mode incorporated shawn williams cynthia. williams westport parkway louisiana vista north-east sweet dreams llc rita mccay chestnut street chattano oga tennessee hlr scoopers llc james melluish south westnedge avenue portage michigan cold creations llc conrad hauca state road new port richey floruit foods llc jennifer leon east williams field road suite gilbert arizona dastani enterprises incorporated keikhosrow dastani campus way north lanham medicinae doctor california desert business investments llc sarah.aziz arsha abid usman aziz adobe road twentyni north-east palms california rkpearson enterprises llc russell pearson karilynn pearson west highway vernal utah tasty treats llc andrew.martin awn.martin south-west main street suite ankeny iowa syed shah numaan shah individuals syed saif ul islam shah numaan shah street andrews church road californi a medicinae doctor kold kreation llp udayan dave shah bela shah woodfield mall schaum burg illinois sweis investments llc gassab sweis william sweis kercheval avenue grosse pointe michigan dhc ventures llc joshua davis amber davis homegrown way yulee floruit williams louisiana mode incorporated shawn williams cindy williams davenport street omaha north-east williams louisiana mode incorporated shawn williams cynthia. williams th street omaha north-east om iii management incorporated anjali sarwal alok sarwal tower road denver colorado shah ventures llc numaan shah syed saif ul islam shah brook road glen allen virginia martha robbins and david delaware louisiana paz martha.robbins david.de louisiana paz us highway frontage road mansfiel texas scoops sweets llc lawrena colombo david smith deer park boulevard deer park illinois mjm enterprise company llc satyan bakhai satyan bakhai north-east road terrace kansas city month acharya daxesh swati swati acharya daxesh. acharya loop san antonio texas alaqmar incorporated ahmed zakiuddin yusuf vajihuddin brookforest avenue shorewo od illinois cps enterprise llc sunil.annapured dy praveen.pati chandan.samire ddy ray road chandler arizona mjm enterprise company llc satyan bakhai ward parkway kansas city month creamery llc victor vidaurri lorena vidaurri south georgia street amarillo texas cold stone creamery franchisees who have signed franchise agreements and the amendment to sell rmcf products in their store but whose stores were not yet open as of november franchise company owners address city state zip phone and or owner emails kamlesh modi and jagruti modi kamlesh hiralal modi jagruti kamlesh modi tbd plano texas anki hotmail.co creamery llc lorena vidaurri victoria or vidaurri south-west th avenue amarillo texas stophic gmail.com husted daniel marlena daniel.hust edward marlena. husted town center avenue big sky mount dshusted hotmail.co marlenahusted gm ail.com mehta ankita et. alabama lalitaben mody ankita mehta dhar mesh.mehta hetal.bhatt ridham.bha tt kamlesh hiralal modi jagruti kamlesh modi ratna kar mody the colony texas coldstone gmail. commission anki hotm ail.com sarjoo otmail.com hkmodi gmail.com bhattridha gmail.com shri modheshwari allen incorporated ratnakar mody kamle sh hiralal modi ankita mehta stacy road allen texas sarjoo hotmail. om anki hotmai.com yousef muhammad muhammad masood yousef fayetteville road durham north carolina masoodusaf icloud. om aslma. kashif. kashif.asla qurat.ka shif sugar land texas kashifaslam yahoo.com asho.kashill yah oo.com leon creamery llc adriana.leo luis.leon maricopa arizona aleon outlook.co luisleoncpa outloo.com saint charles chavelt chavelt saint charles westbury new york chavelt gmail.com williams louisiana mode shawn williams cy nebraska gretna north-east williams cox.net incorporated nthia.willia ms crossing drive om management incorporated anjali sarwal alok sarwal cedar avenue aurora colorado microfredo msn.com a sarwal msn.com note where no store city state or phone number was available the franchisee city state and office telephone number or home telephone number if no office telephone number is available or email address is listed above. attachment to exhibit of franchise disclosure document rocky mountain chocolate factory csc operations manual i rocky mountain chocolate factory csc operations manual table of contents page section. general information history of the rocky mountain chocolate factory mission statement of the rocky mountain chocolate factory rocky mountain chocolate factory goal the rmcf retail store an overview sales patterns and unique characteristics of the five typical rmcf locations your success as an rmcf franchisee the history of chocolate chocolate and health glossary of chocolate industry terms section ii. rocky mountain chocolate factory standards maintaining standards and consistency ii standards of uniformity and operation ii store design and construction requirements ii requirements for license renewal license expansion ii sale or transfer of license or store closure trademarks ii section iii. the customer experience the ten commandments of customer service iii customer service iii the dos and donts of customer service iii helping customers decide iii increasing your sales iii sampling upselling iii handling complaints iii telephone skills iii money matters iii analyzing your store iii the commandments to a successful rmcf store iii copyright rocky mountain chocolate factory incorporated ii page section iv. store operations day to day iv cash handling procedures credit card procedures check procedures iv travelers check procedures iv documenting candy usage iv mail order mail order procedures iv shipping guidelines iv mail order packing supplies iv how to pack a mail order box iv opening procedures iv closing procedures iv cleaning iv section. store accounting systems rmcf finance department policies factory purchases pricing policy credit and pre payment issues financial control its important to the success of the rmcf retail store preparing monthly financial statements cash flow projections proformas as management tools rmcf standard code of accounts the income statement sample balance sheet financial control importance of the month end inventory to accurate financial statements financial control payroll and scheduling employees inventory control its importance in ensuring fresh product and proper ordering procedures month end inventory procedures tips for taking inventory section virgin islands the product line rmcf candy descriptions signatures virgin islands setting retail prices virgin islands cost analysis worksheet virgin islands displaying assorted chocolates virgin islands re stocking trays of chocolates virgin islands displaying packaged products virgin islands in store packaging virgin islands storage of chocolate candies virgin islands back room organization virgin islands iii section virgin islands the product line con confectionery storage guidelines virgin islands hatching virgin islands recommended shelf life virgin islands products approved for manufacture and sale in rmcf stores virgin islands holiday orders virgin islands corporate sale fund raising orders virgin islands factory shipping procedures virgin islands rmcf trucking service virgin islands general freight policies and claim procedures virgin islands report of unsatisfactory product virgin islands section vii. employment information customer service policy and employee expectations vii employees vii employer information vii department of labor occupational safety and health administration recruiting hiring vii recruiting reference log vii recruiting contact log vii manager ads vii general employee ads vii open house ad vii the job application vii pre employment inquiring guide vii conducting the interview vii making the decision vii reference check vii reference check record vii extending the offer vii day to day employee relations vii performance evaluations vii reasons why employees don do what they should vii goals vii setting goals vii goal planning worksheet vii contests vii iv section viii. standard forms from section iii the customer experience customer complaint form viii from section iv store operations day to day checklist closing viii checklist departing day shift cook viii checklist opening duties viii checklist weekly monthly viii contributions donations viii eat sheet viii employee sales viii mail order viii promotions discounts viii sample sheet viii waste sheet viii from section store accounting systems accounts payable viii cash over or short viii cash paid out viii cost analysis worksheet viii income statement viii inventory log viii inventory summary sheet viii payroll time sheet viii sales payroll report viii work schedule viii from section virgin islands the product line report of unsatisfactory product viii from section vii employment information applicant data sheet viii code of ethics viii employee change authorization viii employee review form viii employee review form supervisory viii employee separation form viii employee statistical sheet viii employee warning viii orientation period viii store policies viii time off request viii uniform policy and agreement viii i of store document attachment to exhibit of franchise disclosure document amendment to cold stone creamery franchise agreement ii of store document first amendment to franchise agreement to add rocky mountain chocolate factory products this first amendment to franchise agreement first amendment dated first amendment effective date to the franchise agreement dated collectively the agreement for the cold stone creamery location at location by and between kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company franchisor and franchisee is entered into by such parties to amend the agreement as set forth in this first amendment. to the extent this first amendment contains terms and conditions that differ from those contained in the agreement this first amendment shall control. the parties agree that a concept or principle covered in this first amendment shall apply and be incorporated into all other provisions of the agreement in which the concept or principle is also applicable notwithstanding the absence of any specific cross reference thereto. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this first amendment will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the agreement. the following article rocky mountain chocolate factory license terms and conditions is hereby added to the agreement immediately following the end of article submission of agreement article. rocky mountain chocolate factory license terms and conditions. right to offer and sell rocky mountain chocolate factory products. a grant of rmcf rights. we hereby authorize you to offer and sell the approved rocky mountain chocolate factory rmcf gourmet chocolates and confections individually and collectively rmcf products as provided in writing from time to time during the term by us or rocky mountain chocolate factory incorporated rmcf incorporated the franchisor of the rmcf brand. the rmcf products shall only be offered and sold in compliance with the trademarks and methods of rmcf incorporated collectively rmcf system. all rights hereby granted to you under this article and in connection with your right to use the rmcf system shall hereinafter be referred to as the rmcf rights. rmcf trademarks. the rmcf trademarks service marks trade names and trade dress approved for your use under this agreement as may be amended from time to time by rmcf incorporated are listed in attachment attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference individually and collectively rmcf trademarks. all rmcf trademarks used in connection with the rmcf products and rmcf system are and shall remain the sole property of rmcf incorporated and any and all goodwill associated with and identified by your use of the rmcf trademarks will inure directly and exclusively to the benefit of rmcf incorporated we hereby grant you a non exclusive non transferable sublicense to use the rmcf trademarks solely as authorized by this agreement and in compliance with the terms of the master license agreement entered into by our affiliate as ultimately assigned to us and rmcf incorporated dated august as amended iii of store document rmcf master license agreement. you hereby assign all proprietary rights including copyrights in works created by you or on your behalf or any of your owners officers employees contractors or agents in connection with the use of the rmcf system to rmcf incorporated without additional consideration. you hereby assign and will execute such additional assignments or documentation to effectuate the assignment of all intellectual property inventions copyrights and trade secrets developed in whole or in part in relation to the rmcf system during the term as we or rmcf incorporated may deem necessary to enable rmcf incorporated at its expense to apply for prosecute and obtain copyrights patents or other proprietary rights in the united states and in foreign countries or to transfer to rmcf incorporated all right title and interest in said property. you will promptly disclose to us and rmcf incorporated all inventions discoveries improvements recipes creations patents copyrights trademarks and confidential information relating to the rmcf system which you or any of your owners officers employees contractors or agents have made or may make solely jointly or commonly with others and will promptly create a written record of the same. in addition to the foregoing you acknowledge and agree that any improvements or modifications whether copyrightable directly related to the sale of rmcf products will be deemed to be a part of the rmcf system and will inure to the benefit of rmcf incorporated rmcf operations. you acknowledge the layout design decoration color scheme signage and equipment associated with the rmcf system is an integral part thereof. accordingly. you will convert design and decorate a portion of the location as specified by us for use in the sale of rmcf products and in accordance with the plans and specifications which are contained in the confidential rmcf operating manual provided to you by either us or rmcf incorporated which also contains standards specifications policies and other directives and information relevant to the rmcf system as may be amended by from time to time by rmcf incorporated rmcf operating manual. prior to any implementation or construction of such rmcf designs you must receive our and our third party approved architect approval of the rmcf design plans. you may in our sole discretion be charged a fee of one thousand seven hundred dollars for such review and approval in addition to any fee charged for the review of the plans for the franchised business. you acknowledge that such approval is solely for complying with the rmcf system and not for determining compliance with codes ordinances or other legal requirements. you are solely responsible for ensuring that the location including the rmcf design plans conform to all codes ordinances and other legal requirements including the ada. upon completion of all approvals a copy of the final approved store design plans shall be attached to and incorporated in this agreement as attachment. you must acquire for use at the location all signage and other items that display the rmcf trademarks and ensure compliance with the rmcf standards and specifications that are contained in the rmcf operating manual. it is your sole responsibility to ensure that any signs used at the location also comply with applicable local ordinances building iv of store document codes and zoning regulations. any modifications to the standards and specifications for rmcf signs that must be made due to local ordinances codes or regulations must be submitted to us for submission to rmcf incorporated for prior written approval. you acknowledge the rmcf trademarks or any other name symbol or identifying marks on any signs associated with the rmcf system may only be used in accordance with standards and specifications set forth in this agreement and only with the prior written approval of rmcf incorporated you must acquire for use at the location the equipment of a type and in an amount which complies with the rmcf system. you acknowledge that the type quality configuration capability and performance of the equipment are all standards and specifications which are a part of the rmcf system and therefore such equipment must be purchased leased or otherwise obtained in accordance with rmcf incorporated standards and specifications and only from suppliers or other sources approved by rmcf incorporated we will determine the initial inventory of rmcf products and rmcf equipment that you will purchase from rmcf incorporated or its designated or approved suppliers to be used offered and sold in connection with the franchised business. you agree to offer such rmcf products as we shall designate and you shall not offer any products or services under the rmcf trademarks not previously approved by us in writing. depending on several factors which include the size and configuration of your location we may permit you to manufacture certain confections rmcf products and cooking supplies on site at your location using rmcf incorporated proprietary recipes individually and collectively store candy and we may require that you purchase certain confections rmcf products and cooking supplies manufactured by rmcf incorporated in its factory individually and collectively factory candy. franchised business permitted by us to manufacture a full line of store candy including dipping caramel is referred to as a full rmcf store. franchised business which is permitted by us to manufacture a more limited amount of store candy is referred to as traditional rmcf stores. rmcf incorporated reserves the right to change the price for factory candy and related products from time to time as may be set forth in the most recent price bulletin sent to all franchisees or the then current rmcf operating manual. with respect to the offer and sale of all rmcf menu items rmcf products and rmcf services you are free to set your own resale prices provided that we may where allowed by applicable law establish maximum resale prices that may be charged based on an analysis of the market and to facilitate advertising and competitive strategies. you shall obtain all permits and certifications as may be required to lawfully sell rmcf products together with all certifications from government authorities having jurisdiction over the location. you must certify to us before commencing the sale of rmcf products that all requirements for construction and operation have been met including zoning access sign health safety requirements building and other of store document required construction permits licenses to do business and fictitious name registrations sales tax permits health and sanitation permits and ratings and fire clearances. you shall be responsible for the cost of obtaining all governmental construction permits certifications and licenses necessary to lawfully sell rmcf products and must at your expense comply with all laws zoning ordinances rules and regulations of any governmental agencies that may govern the construction of or modifications to the location for the sale of rmcf products. you agree to allow our authorized representatives at any and all times while construction is in progress to meet with the licensed architect and general contractor and enter the location for this purpose. if we determine in good faith that the provisions of this section. county are not being observed you will at your expense immediately take all necessary corrective action. your rmcf representations and warranties. you represent and warrant that the following statements are true and complete in regards to your rmcf operations. you do not seek to obtain the rmcf rights for speculative or investment purposes and have no present intention to sell or transfer or attempt to sell or transfer its rmcf rights. you understand and acknowledge the value to the rmcf brand of uniform and ethical standards of quality appearance and service described in and required by the rmcf operating manual and the necessity of operating the location under the standards set forth in the rmcf operating manual. you represent that you have the capabilities professionally financially and otherwise to comply with our standards and the standards of rmcf incorporated you have read and understand the information and disclosures made in the rmcf disclosure document provided to you by us or rmcf incorporated you understand and acknowledge that estimates for initial startup expenses are estimates only. you understand that there can be and likely will be additional start up expenses. you have had the opportunity to and have consulted or elected not to consult with your attorney and accountant and business advisors before entering into this agreement. you understand and acknowledge that you may make money and may lose money and are entering this rmcf business venture with this express understanding. you are not relying upon anything which is not contained within this agreement or any related disclosure document in determining and deciding to sell rmcf products. notwithstanding the foregoing you understand and agree that the rmcf system must not remain static if it is to meet without limitation presently unforeseen changes in technology competitive circumstances demographics populations consumer trends social trends and other market place variables and if it is to best serve the interests of virgin islands of store document the rmcf brand you and all other rmcf franchisees. accordingly you expressly understand and agree that rmcf incorporated may from time to time change the components of the rmcf system including altering the products programs services methods standards forms policies and procedures of that rmcf system abandoning the rmcf system altogether in favor of another system in connection with a merger acquisition or other business combination or for other reasons adding to deleting from or modifying those products programs and services which under article you are authorized or required to offer modifying or substituting entirely the rmcf system including the rmcf equipment signage trade dress dcor color schemes and other specifications and all other unit constructions design appearance and operation attributes which you are required to observe under this agreement and abandoning changing improving modifying or substituting the rmcf trademarks. you expressly agree to comply with any such modifications changes additions deletions substitutions and alterations. you shall accept use and effectuate any such changes or modifications to or substitution of the rmcf system as if they were part of the rmcf system at the time that this agreement was executed. except as provided herein neither we nor rmcf incorporated shall be liable to you for any expenses losses or damages sustained by you as a result of any of the modifications contemplated hereby. you represent that neither you nor any of your affiliates officers directors managers members or partners as applicable or funding sources are subject to. executive order identified on the. department of the treasury office of foreign assets control specially designated national and blocked persons list or any terrorist list or other blocked persons list. in addition you represent that you have not received funding from nor are you owned controlled or acting on behalf of the government of any country that is subject to an embargo by the united states any foreign government official political party or international organization and that no foreign government or government official political party or international organization has any financial interest in your rmcf rights or any monies earned by your exercise of the rmcf rights. you or any member of your immediate family in the case of an individual are not currently and will not at any time in the future be engaged in or participate as an owner officer partner director agent employee shareholder member manager or otherwise in any other rmcf competitive business without having first obtained rmcf incorporated written consent. for the purposes of this article rmcf competitive business means any business operating or granting franchises or licenses to others to operate a retail wholesale distribution or manufacturing business with either of the following attributes i a business deriving a total of ten percent or more of its gross receipts from the sale processing or manufacturing of one or a combination of any of the following boxed chocolate candies products which are the same as or substantially similar to candy made by you at the location or products made with recipes or processes included in the rmcf operating manual or ii a business devoting a total of ten percent or more of its retail display space to one or a combination of the following boxed chocolate candies products vii of store document which are the same as or substantially similar to candy made by you at the location or products made with recipes or processes included in the rmcf operating manual. rmcf training. you or if you are an entity then the natural person designated by you to assume primary responsibility for the management of the franchised business general manager are required to attend and successfully complete an initial training program for the sale of rmcf products as offered by rmcf incorporated or by authorized employees or representatives of ours who have been approved to conduct rmcf product training rmcf initial training. the rmcf initial training will consist of classroom and on the job training lasting approximately thirty hours plus an additional seven days if you transition to a full rmcf store and will be held in durango colorado or such other location as designated by us or rmcf incorporated you may at your option send one additional person to the rmcf initial training. the rmcf initial training program will be provided without charge of a tuition or fee however you will be responsible for any and all travel and living expenses incurred in connection with attendance at the rmcf initial training. you must successfully complete the rmcf initial training before you will be permitted to sell rmcf products or to exercise any of its other rmcf rights. you acknowledge that adequate knowledge regarding the rmcf brand is essential to the promotion of the rmcf system. based upon your prior experience in the food service industry and subject to rmcf incorporated approval your requirement to attend the rmcf initial training may be waived by us or rmcf incorporated rmcf non disparagement. you will not take any action or make any statements to any third parties that would constitute a criticism denigration or disparagement of rmcf incorporated or us of either of our employees representatives or agents or the rmcf system or that would tend to be injurious to the reputation or goodwill of rmcf incorporated or us or either of our respective employees representatives or agents or the rmcf system or which may interfere in any manner with our or rmcf incorporated business affairs or business relations or either of our respective employees representatives or agents. reservation of rights. you acknowledge that the rmcf rights granted herein are non exclusive and that pursuant to the rmcf master license agreement rmcf incorporated retains the rights among others to use and to license others to use the rmcf system for the operation of rmcf stores kiosk stores satellite stores temporary stores and other colorado branded stores at any location other than at the location to use the rmcf system to identify services and products promotional and marketing efforts or related items and to identify products and services similar to or the same as those which you will sell but made available through alternative channels of distribution other than through traditional rmcf stores at any location other than at the location including through satellite stores temporary stores kiosk stores other colorado branded stores by way of mail order including electronic mail order the internet catalog telemarketing other direct marketing methods television retail store display or through the wholesale sale of its products to unrelated retail viii of store document outlets or to candy distributors or outlets located in stadiums arenas airports turnpike rest stops or supermarkets and to use and license the use of other proprietary marks or methods in connection with the sale of products and services similar to those which you will sell or in connection with the operation of retail stores selling chocolate and other products at any location other than at the location which stores are the same as or similar to or different from a traditional rmcf store or a satellite store a temporary store a colorado branded store or a kiosk store on any terms and conditions as rmcf incorporated deems advisable and without granting you any rights therein. rocky mountain chocolate factory fees. a initial rmcf license fee. you shall pay to us an initial rmcf license fee in the amount of six thousand dollars if granted the rights to traditional rmcf store or twenty four thousand five hundred dollars if granted the rights to full rmcf store rmcf license fee. the rmcf license fee is in addition to the initial franchise fee for the franchised business as set forth in section. and will be due and payable by you to us by cashier check wire transfer or other form of immediately available funds acceptable to us upon your execution of the first amendment to franchise agreement subjection to section. a you and we agree that our grant of the rmcf rights and your payment of the rmcf license fee does not give you any rights with respect to other franchises or licenses if any as we in our sole discretion may elect to make available in the future. the rmcf license fee will be fully earned by us upon the first amendment effective date and will be nonrefundable. if you are initially granted the rights to a traditional rmcf store and are later granted the rights to a full rmcf store the remaining balance amount of the rmcf license fee due pursuant to section. a raising the total rmcf license fee due to twenty four thousand five hundred dollars will be payable by you to us upon your execution of an amendment granting you the additional rights to become a full rmcf store. rmcf royalties. for the period of time commencing on the later of the date that you sign the first amendment to franchise agreement or the date you begin to sell rmcf product to the public and for the duration of the term you must pay to us a weekly royalty fee equal to nine percent of total rmcf gross sales as defined below rmcf royalty fee. this rmcf royalty fee is in addition to the royalty fee set forth in section. during a temporary closure of your franchised business if any and as set forth in section. you are not required to pay the rmcf royalty fee. rmcf transfer fee. transfer fee of two thousand five hundred dollars rmcf transfer fee is payable to us when you sell the rights granted you under this article. this rmcf transfer fee is in addition to the transfer fee set forth in section. ix of store document rmcf gross sales. for the purpose of this article rmcf gross sales means all sales money or things of value received or receivable directly or indirectly by you on account of the sale of rmcf products less applicable sales taxes and any documented refunds credits and allowances given by you to customers in accordance with the rmcf operating manual but without deducting any of your costs and expenses. all sales made from catering services of rmcf product must be included in rmcf gross sales. rmcf reporting. you are required to report rmcf gross sales to our designated accounting office via the internet at http franchisee.kahalamgmt.com as set forth by us by the close of business on each tuesday for the week ending the preceding tuesday commencing on the first amendment effective date and continuing through the term. the rmcf gross sales reports shall detail the rmcf gross sales derived from the sale of rmcf products separately from the gross sales as set forth in section. you acknowledge and agree that we may share all rmcf gross sales reports with rmcf incorporated rmcf payment terms. payment of rmcf royalty fees and all other fees due to us under this article shall be made in the same manner as payments required under article. this includes. your requirement to make payments via electronic transfer of funds. our right to debit your depository account at any time upon notice to you for any amounts owed by you or your affiliates under any agreement by and between you or any of your affiliates and us or any of our affiliates. our right to charge you interest accruing on late payments from the date payment is due until the date it is paid at an interest rate of eighteen percent per annum which amount plus a late charge of five percent of the unpaid amount or one hundred dollars whichever is greater shall be added to each late payment and. our right to inspect and audit or cause to be inspected and audited the business records cash control devices bookkeeping and accounting records sales and income tax records and returns and other records of the franchised business and your entity books and records as they relate to the rmcf system. rocky mountain chocolate factory default termination. a termination by us effective upon notice. we have the right in our sole discretion to terminate any and all of your rmcf rights without affording you any opportunity to cure subject only to any termination pre requisites in any state franchise law whose applicability as a matter of law supersedes the choice of law provision set forth in this agreement and such termination will be effective upon your receipt of written notice upon http franchisee.kahalamgmt.com of store document the occurrence of any of the following events. abandonment. if you cease to sell rmcf products for a period of five consecutive days or any shorter period that indicates an intent by you to discontinue sale of the rmcf products unless and only to the extent that full operation of the franchised business is suspended or terminated due to fire flood earthquake or other similar causes beyond your control and not related to the availability of funds to you. misuse of rmcf trademarks. if within ten days after notification from us you fail with respect to the rmcf trademarks either to correct any misuse or to follow our or rmcf incorporated directions and guidelines concerning proper use. unauthorized disclosure. if you intentionally or negligently disclose to any unauthorized person the contents of or any part of the rmcf operating manual or any other trade secrets or confidential information related to the rmcf system. unauthorized transfer. if you sell transfer or otherwise assign the rmcf rights or attempt to transfer rmcf rights in any manner not in full compliance with the transfer provisions set forth in this agreement and such transfer is not part of the simultaneous transfer of this agreement. you specifically understand and agree that this article is indivisible from this agreement and may not be transferred except as part of an approved transfer of this agreement. failure to pay. if you fail to pay rmcf incorporated for purchases of rmcf products and other items on a timely basis and that failure has not been cured within thirty days after we or rmcf incorporated have provided notice of such failure to you. termination by us effective upon thirty days notice. we have the right to terminate your rmcf rights subject only to any termination pre requisites in any state franchise law whose applicability as a matter of law supersedes the choice of law provision set forth in this agreement effective upon thirty days written notice to you if you breach any provision of this article other than those listed in section. a and fail to cure the default during such thirty day period. in that event your rmcf rights will terminate without further notice to you effective upon expiration of the thirty day period. defaults include the following. failure to maintain standards. you fail to maintain the then current operating procedures and adhere to the specifications and standards established by the rmcf operating manual or otherwise communicated to you. deceptive practices. you engage in any unauthorized business or practice or sell any unauthorized product or service under the rmcf trademarks or under a name or mark which is confusingly similar to the rmcf trademarks xi of store document failure to obtain consent. you fail refuse or neglect to obtain our or rmcf incorporated prior written approval or consent as required or. failure to comply with the rmcf operating manual. you fail or refuse to comply with the then current requirements of the rmcf operating manual. notwithstanding the foregoing if the breach is curable but is of a nature which cannot be reasonably cured within such thirty day period and you have commenced and are continuing to make good faith efforts to cure the breach during such thirty day period as determined in our sole discretion then you may be given an additional reasonable period of time to cure the same and the rmcf rights will not automatically terminate without written notice from us. termination of rmcf master license agreement. you acknowledge that the rmcf rights are granted pursuant to and remain conditional upon the continued existence of the rmcf master license agreement. the rmcf rights will automatically terminate upon the expiration or termination of the rmcf master license agreement regardless of the cause of such termination and neither we nor rmcf incorporated shall have any further liability or obligation to you arising from or in connection with the termination or this article. upon termination of the rmcf rights you may at your own expense be required to return the location to the condition reasonably similar to those prior to the renovations made pursuant to section. scope of rmcf rights termination. at your option a termination of the rmcf rights may relate solely to your rights and obligations with respect to the rmcf system and shall not affect the validity or ongoing enforceability of the remainder of this agreement including your rights in connection with the cold stone creamery brand. termination of the rmcf rights for any reason does not release you or us from the respective obligations under any other section of this agreement or any other agreement including any lease or promissory note between the parties. your obligations upon termination of the rmcf rights. you are obligated upon termination of your rmcf rights to immediately. cease use of and remove all rmcf trademarks including signs symbols devices trade names trademarks or other materials. renovate paint or otherwise change the interior and exterior of the location to remove any trade dress or other leasehold improvements equipment fixtures candy cases and other items that identify with the rmcf system. deliver to us or our designee all items of inventory that bear rmcf trademarks including packaged chocolates confections signs sign faces advertising materials forms and other materials xii of store document deliver to us or our designee the rmcf operating manual and all other information documents and copies thereof associated with the rmcf system. promptly take such action as may be required to cancel all fictitious or assumed names or equivalent registrations relating to your use of any rmcf trademarks which are under the exclusive control of rmcf incorporated or at the option of rmcf incorporated assign the same to the rmcf incorporated if applicable notify all telephone directory publishers of the termination or expiration of your right to use any regular classified or other telephone directory listings associated with any rmcf trademarks and to authorize transfer thereof to rmcf incorporated or its designee. you acknowledge that as between you and us we have the sole rights to and interest in all directory listings associated with any rmcf trademark. you authorize us and hereby appoint us and any of our officers as your attorney in fact to direct the telephone directory publishers to transfer to us or our designee or cancel any directory listings relating to the location. should you fail or refuse to do so you understand and agree that the telephone directory publishers may accept a copy of this article as conclusive evidence of our exclusive rights in such directory listings and our authority to direct their transfer or cancellation. sign a general release in a form satisfactory to us of any and all claims against us rmcf incorporated and each of our affiliates and each respective officer director employee and agent and. if applicable take such action as may be required to remove from the internet all sites referring to your former association with the rmcf system and to cancel or assign to us or our designee in our sole discretion all rights to any domain names for any sites on the internet that refer to any such association. rocky mountain chocolate factory indemnification. a indemnification of rmcf incorporated and us. you agree to indemnify defend and hold rmcf incorporated us and each of our respective affiliates including parent and subsidiary companies and its stockholders directors officers members managers partners joint venturers attorneys employees contractors agents guarantors successors and assignees collectively rmcf indemnified parties harmless for from and against any and all claims liabilities causes of action demands obligations costs and expenses damages liabilities judgments proceedings of every kind and nature including reasonable attorneys fees individually and collectively rmcf claims suffered or incurred by any of the rmcf indemnified parties arising out of or relating to your rmcf rights including your failure to comply with pci dss or any law statute regulation order rule or ordinance or management of the franchised business and the rmcf system except for rmcf claims held to have resulted solely from our or rmcf incorporated gross negligence or willful misconduct. notwithstanding the foregoing rmcf incorporated will have the right at its option to defend any rmcf claim but you must reimburse rmcf incorporated upon demand for the xiii of store document costs of such defense. rmcf incorporated indemnification of you. rmcf incorporated agrees to indemnify defend and hold you and your affiliates and their stockholders directors officers members managers partners employees agents successors and assignees harmless for from and against any and all rmcf claims liabilities causes of action demands obligations costs and expenses including reasonable attorneys fees arising out of any alleged infringement or unfair competition in connection with your authorized use of the rmcf trademarks and rmcf confidential information provided that such use is in accordance with the provisions of this agreement. however if rmcf incorporated requires you to modify or discontinue use of its proprietary information or use other information or rights in its place at any time other than upon renewal of this agreement and that requirement is a direct result of proceedings or litigation that determined that its and its sublicensees use of the proprietary information infringed upon a third party rights rmcf incorporated will bear the cost of those modifications or discontinuances. rocky mountain chocolate factory insurance. you shall obtain insurance coverage applicable to rmcf incorporated in accordance and in addition to its insurance obligations under section. including adding rmcf incorporated and its affiliates and each of their respective directors shareholders employees and agents as additional insureds with primary non contributory coverage on all insurance policies that you are obligated to maintain pursuant to this agreement as well as any additional insurance coverage policy amounts or other obligations that may be contained in the rmcf operating manual. rocky mountain chocolate factory non competition. you acknowledge and agree that the provisions of section. shall apply equally to a business operating or granting franchises or licenses to others to operate a retail wholesale distribution or manufacturing business with either of the following attributes i a business deriving a total of ten percent or more of its gross receipts from the sale processing or manufacturing of one or a combination of any of the following boxed chocolate candies or products which are the same as or substantially similar to store candy or products made with recipes or processes included in the rmcf operating manual or ii a business devoting a total of ten percent or more of its retail display space to one or a combination of the following boxed chocolate candies or products which are the same as or substantially similar to store candy or products made with recipes or processes included in the rmcf operating manual. for purposes of enforcing section. all references to us shall also include rmcf incorporated rocky mountain chocolate factory confidentiality agreement. you agree to treat the rmcf operating manual in the same confidential manner as our confidential operations manual. at our request each individual referenced in section. d will sign the rmcf confidentiality xiv of store document and non competition agreement set forth in attachment attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference. rocky mountain chocolate factory acknowledgements of franchisee. in addition to the acknowledgements of franchisee set forth in section. of this agreement a franchisee recognizes that the success of the rmcf product offering involves substantial business risks. franchisor expressly disclaims making and franchisee acknowledges that it has not received or relied on any warranty or guarantee express or implied as to the potential volume profits or success of such offering contemplated by this agreement. franchisee initials. franchisee acknowledges that the rmcf rights granted in this agreement are contingent upon the ongoing relationship between franchisor and rmcf incorporated and will immediately terminate in the event of a termination or expiration of the rmcf master license agreement. franchisee initials. franchisee acknowledges that its financial obligations under any promissory note it may have signed in connection with the rmcf rights will continue regardless of the success that franchisee has in connection with such rmcf rights. franchisee initials. franchisee acknowledges that it will be required to meet the operating standards of franchisor and rmcf incorporated and any additional operating standards established by franchisor and or rmcf incorporated with respect to the rmcf rights including but not limited to manager and staff uniforms hours of operation and pricing of products. franchisee initials. franchisee acknowledges that it will be required to fully execute the national marketing calendar provided to it by franchisor that incorporates marketing for rmcf products. franchisee initials. franchisee acknowledges receipt of franchisor and rmcf disclosure document at least days prior to the execution of this first amendment or payment of any monies to franchisor or franchisor agent. franchisee initials xv of store document construction. you and we agree that the purpose of this article is not to change or alter the terms of this agreement except as necessary to accomplish the objective of this article. therefore in respect to the rmcf system if the terms listed in this agreement outside of this article conflict with this article the language shall be construed to the maximum extent possible to avoid any direct conflict and if such construction is unavoidable then the terms of this article shall govern. attachments and hereto are hereby added to and incorporated in the agreement by this reference. except as set forth in this first amendment the terms and provisions of the agreement shall remain in full force and effect. in witness whereof the parties hereto by and through their respective authorized representatives who each have full rights power and authority to enter into and bind his or her respective party to the obligations set forth in this first amendment without further consent or approval of any kind have duly executed and delivered this first amendment as of the first amendment effective date. franchisor kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company by name title franchisee a by name title by name title attachment rmcf trademarks the term rmcf trademarks includes the following. rocky mountain chocolate factory word mark. rocky mountain chocolate factory and design and. all other trademarks and service marks that are included in the rmcf operating manual from time to time that are authorized for use in the franchised business with products offered under the cold stone creamery proprietary marks. attachment location floor plan attachment confidentiality and non competition agreement see attached confidentiality and noncompetition agreement this confidentiality and noncompetition agreement agreement dated by and between rocky mountain chocolate factory incorporated rmcf and individuals of franchisee entity a type of franchisee entity collectively franchisee. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the franchise agreement defined below. kahala franchising. has granted to franchisee pursuant to that certain franchise agreement dated franchise agreement and amendment thereto granting franchisee rights to use the rmcf system as defined in the first amendment to franchise agreement dated amendment the right to offer cold stone creamery products and rocky mountain chocolate factory products in the same store store. the undersigned in consideration of the receipt and or use of the operating manual and other information proprietary to rmcf including but not limited to methods strategies and techniques developed by rmcf relating to operations marketing training advertising trade secrets recipes and other confidential data collectively referred to as proprietary information agrees with rmcf as follows the undersigned acknowledges that the operating manual and other proprietary information now or hereafter provided to franchisee by or on behalf of rmcf is proprietary to rmcf and must be held in the utmost and strictest confidence. the undersigned represents and agrees that the undersigned will not without the prior written consent of rmcf either i duplicate or otherwise reproduce the operating manual or other proprietary information ii deliver or make available the operating manual or other proprietary information to any person other than an authorized representative of rmcf iii discuss or otherwise disclose the contents of the operating manual or other proprietary information to any person other than an authorized representative of rmcf or iv use the operating manual or other proprietary information to his her or its commercial advantage other than in connection with the operation of the franchise created and granted by the franchise agreement. while the franchise agreement and the amendment are in effect neither the undersigned nor any member of his or her immediate family shall engage in or participate as an owner officer partner director agent employee shareholder member manager or otherwise in any other competitive business without having first obtained rmcf written consent. for the purposes of this agreement competitive business shall mean any business operating or granting franchises or licenses to others to operate a retail wholesale distribution or manufacturing business with either of the following attributes i a business deriving a total of or more of its gross receipts from the sale processing or manufacturing of one or a combination of any of the following boxed chocolate candies or products which are the same as or substantially similar to store candy or products made with recipes or processes included in the operating manual or ii a business devoting a total of or more of its retail display space to one or a combination of the following boxed chocolate candies or products which are the same as or substantially similar to store candy or products made with recipes or processes included in the operating manual. the undersigned has acquired from rmcf or its authorized representative confidential information regarding rmcf trade secrets and franchised methods which in the event of a termination of the franchise agreement and amendment could be used to injure rmcf. as a result neither the undersigned nor any member of his or her immediate family shall for a period of year from the date of termination transfer or expiration of the franchise agreement and amendment without having first obtained rmcf written consent engage in or participate as an owner officer partner director agent employee shareholder member manager or otherwise in any competitive business which is located or operating as of the date of such termination transfer or expiration within a mile radius of the franchisee former location as defined in the franchise agreement or within a mile radius of any other franchised or company owned or colorado branded rocky mountain chocolate factory store unless such right is granted pursuant to a separate agreement with rmcf. the undersigned agrees that during the term of the franchise agreement and for a period of year thereafter it shall in no way divert or attempt to divert the business of customers or interfere with the business relationship established with customers of the store or of any competitive business. the undersigned agrees that all copyrightable works created by the undersigned the franchisee or any of its owners officers or employees in connection with the proprietary information shall be the sole property of rmcf. the franchisee has assigned all proprietary rights including copyrights in these works to rmcf without additional consideration. the undersigned and the franchisee hereby assign and will execute such additional assignments or documentation to effectuate the assignment of all intellectual property inventions copyrights and trade secrets developed in part or in whole in relation to the store during the term of the agreement as rmcf may deem necessary in order to enable it at its expense to apply for prosecute and obtain copyrights patents or other proprietary rights in the united states and in foreign countries or in order to transfer to rmcf all right title and interest in said property. the undersigned and the franchisee shall promptly disclose to rmcf all inventions discoveries improvements recipes creations patents copyrights trademarks and confidential information relating to the store which it or any of its owners officers or employees has made or may make solely jointly or commonly with others and shall promptly create a written record of the same. in addition to the foregoing the undersigned and the franchisee acknowledge and agree that any improvements or modifications whether or not copyrightable directly or indirectly related to the store shall be deemed to be a part of the rmcf system and shall inure to the benefit of rmcf. the undersigned agrees that it shall not take any action or make any statements to any third parties that would constitute a criticism denigration or disparagement of rmcf or the rmcf system or would tend to be injurious to the reputation or goodwill of rmcf or its marks or which in any manner may interfere with the business affairs or business relations of rmcf. in witness whereof this agreement has been executed by the undersigned as of the date set forth above. agreed to by name a entity type by name title by name title rocky mountain chocolate factory incorporated by title store document exhibit to the franchise disclosure document amendment to franchise agreement for colorado branded non traditional locations store document of first amendment to franchise agreement for non traditional locations colorado branded with an affiliated brand this first amendment to franchise agreement first amendment dated first amendment effective date to the franchise agreement dated agreement for the non traditional cold stone creamery restaurant being colorado branded in the name of original brand restaurant located at by and between kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company franchisor and franchisee is entered into by such parties to amend the agreement as set forth in this first amendment. to the extent this first amendment contains terms and conditions that differ from those contained in the agreement this first amendment shall control. the parties agree that a concept or principle covered in this first amendment shall apply and be incorporated into all other provisions of the agreement in which the concept or principle is also applicable notwithstanding the absence of any specific cross reference thereto. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this first amendment will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the agreement. franchisee agrees that franchisee shall enter into this agreement under the same franchisee name as the name of original brand franchise agreement. franchisee hereby represents that it has reviewed the underlying lease agreement for the location to ensure the lease agreement does not contain any provisions that prevent or restrict franchisee from serving super premium fresh made ice cream frozen yogurt cakes pies smoothies shakespeare specialty beverages soft drinks other frozen dessert products and other cold stone creamery menu items at the location. franchisee shall be responsible for all costs and expenses fees penalties attorneys fees claims demands and damages incurred relating to franchisee offering cold stone creamery menu items at the location. franchisee agrees that the agreement may only be transferred in conjunction with a transfer of the name of original brand franchise agreement. the last sentence of the second unnumbered paragraph in section. location of the franchised business no exclusive territory or other rights is hereby deleted and replaced with the following this agreement is limited to the operation of one non traditional restaurant unless otherwise amended and does not grant you the right to buy own or operate additional restaurants. section. term of agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following. term of agreement. the term of this agreement will commence on the effective date and expire concurrently with the term of the franchise agreement of the traditional brand in which this store is colorado branded unless terminated earlier in accordance with article or any other provisions of this agreement renewed in accordance with article or transferred in accordance with article term. section. training program is hereby amended to add the following after store document of the last sentence in section. notwithstanding the foregoing for non traditional colorado branded restaurants the total number of days of in store training will be five days. section. computer systems debit and credit card processing is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following. computer systems debit and credit card processing. you hereby agree to use the same pos system for the franchised business under the same terms and conditions as provided in the name of original brand franchise agreement. the first sentence of section. initial franchise fee is hereby deleted and replaced with the following the initial franchise fee for this non traditional colorado brand location is thousand dollars initial franchise fee. franchisee agrees that the gross sales for this cold stone creamery restaurant shall be reported separately from the gross sales reported under the name of original brand franchise agreement. franchisee further agrees that the royalty fee and advertising fee for this cold stone creamery restaurant shall be paid separately from the royalty fee and advertising fee payable under the name of original brand franchise agreement. section. depository account payment procedures is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following. depository account payment procedures. you hereby agree to use the same depository account for the franchised business under the same terms and conditions as provided in the name of original brand franchise agreement. section. lease review fee is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following. not applicable. section. lease guarantee fee is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following. not applicable. section. transfer franchise fee is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following. transfer franchise fee. potential transferee as defined in section. circa receiving this agreement as may be amended in connection with a full transfer as defined in section. a must pay us a transfer franchise fee of five thousand dollars transfer franchise fee. section. annual meeting registration fee is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following. not applicable. store document of. section. data fees is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following. not applicable. section. pos help desk phone support maintenance service fee is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following. not applicable. the first sentence in section. grand opening marketing is hereby deleted and replaced with the following five thousand dollars grand opening marketing is payable to us on the earlier of i prior to you executing a lease for the premises where the franchised business will be located or ii prior to construction commencing at the premises where the franchised business will be located. except as set forth in this first amendment the terms and provisions of the agreement shall remain in full force and effect. signature page follows in witness whereof each party hereto by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind his or her respective party without further consent or approval of any kind has duly executed and delivered this first amendment as of the first amendment effective date. franchisor kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company by name title franchisee a by name title by name title training participation waiver kahala franchising. an arizona limited exhibit to the franchise disclosure document in store training release and waiver of liability agreement training participation waiver kahala franchising. an arizona limited in store training release and waiver of liability read this instrument fully and carefully prior to signing. this is legally valid and binding obligation to release party from all known and unknown obligations. this document must be signed before training can begin. this in store training release and waiver of liability release executed on this day of effective date by trainee is in favor of a corporation a limited liability company or as individual and their respective directors officers members partners managers employees agents insurers successors assigns representatives executors and heirs individually and collectively the franchisee and kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company and its affiliates and each of their respective parents subsidiaries directors officers members managers employees agents successors assigns and insurers individually and collectively the franchisor. franchisor and franchisee shall collectively be referred to herein as the hosts. the trainee desires to participate in a training program provided by the hosts which program involves engaging in activities related to being a restaurant worker activities for the purpose of learning to operate a similar business. the trainee understands that the activities may take place at various restaurant facilities owned operated or managed by franchisor and or franchisee and may include various restaurant activities including but not limited to cooking cleaning lifting and climbing all of which may take place in a facility where there is increased risk of bodily harm or personal injury including but not limited to slips falls burns lacerations exposure to hazardous materials as well as many other risks. trainee understands and agrees that no compensation shall be earned by or paid to trainee in connection with trainee participation in the training program. in consideration of the training being provided to trainee in the hosts location trainee agrees that such training constitutes good and valuable consideration and hereby freely voluntarily and without duress executes this release under the following terms release and waiver. trainee does hereby release and forever discharge and hold harmless and promise to indemnify and not sue hosts both jointly and severally from any and all liability claims actions damages judgments obligations expenses including without limitation attorneys fees expert witness fees and costs and demands of whatever kind or nature either in law or in equity which arise or may hereafter arise in whole or in part from trainee activities with hosts. trainee understands that this release discharges hosts from any liability or claim that the trainee may have against hosts with respect to any bodily injury personal injury illness death or property damage that may result from trainee activities with hosts whether caused by the negligence of trainee or hosts. trainee also understands and hereby agrees that it is not an employee of hosts and that hosts do not assume any responsibility for or obligation to provide financial assistance or other assistance including but not limited to medical life health or disability or workers compensation insurance in the event of injury or illness. medical treatment. trainee does hereby release and forever discharge hosts from any claim whatsoever which arises or may hereafter arise on account of any first aid treatment or service rendered in connection with the trainee activities with hosts. insurance. trainee understands that except as otherwise agreed to by hosts in writing hosts do not carry or maintain health medical life workers compensation or disability insurance coverage for any trainee. each trainee is expected and encouraged to obtain his or her own medical health life disability and workers compensation insurance for his or her protection while conducting any activities with hosts. training participation waiver kahala franchising. an arizona limited photographic release. in consideration of the training provided to trainee and without further compensation or royalties trainee hereby authorizes hosts to capture and use in any form format or media whether now known or later developed for marketing advertising and other business purposes trainee name image likeness voice and other personal information and hereby grants and conveys unto hosts all right title and interest in any and all photographic images and video or audio recordings captured or made by hosts during the trainee activities with hosts including but not limited to any claims damages royalties proceeds or other benefits derived from such photographs or recordings. prohibition on hiring. trainee understands and agrees that during its activities with hosts it will be afforded an opportunity to meet and work with experienced employees of hosts who could be of value to trainee should they be employed by trainee. trainee hereby agrees that for a period of two years following the effective date of this release trainee shall not directly or indirectly recruit solicit offer hire or otherwise entice any employee or agent of hosts to become a trainee employee or to otherwise sever his or her employment with hosts. other. trainee expressly agrees that this release is intended to be as broad and inclusive as permitted by the laws of the state of arizona and that this release shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the state of arizona. trainee agrees for himself herself and his or her heirs executors and representatives that the representations in this release are contractually binding and are not mere recitals and that should trainee or his her heirs executors or representatives assert a claim contrary to what trainee has agreed to in this release the claiming party shall be liable for the expenses including without limitation attorneys fees and costs incurred by hosts in defending the claims. this release may not be modified orally and a waiver or modification of any provision shall not be construed as a waiver or modification of any other provision herein or as consent to any subsequent waiver or modification. trainee consents to the release by any third party to hosts and their insurance carriers of trainee name and medical information that may relate solely to any injury or death he or she may suffer arising from the activities. trainee agrees that in the event that any clause or provision of this release shall be held to be invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction the invalidity of such clause or provision shall not otherwise affect the remaining provisions of this release which shall continue to be enforceable and hosts and trainee agree to promptly negotiate the terms of a substitute clause or provision to replace the severed or unenforceable clause or provision consistent with the parties original intent and then current law. in witness whereof certify that am years of age or older. have carefully read understand and have freely executed this release as of the effective date. trainee signature printed name address street city state zip home phone work phone witness signature must be years of age or older printed name exhibit to the franchise disclosure document addendum to the franchise agreement for sba loans instructions for use of sba form addendum to franchise agreement sba has issued a revised version of the addendum to franchise agreement sba form which became effective january. sba standard operating procedure sop explains updates made to the franchise review process for the a and loan programs. by executing this addendum the franchisor agrees that any terms in its franchise agreement or any other document the franchisor requires the franchisee to sign that are related to control by the franchisor or its franchisees resulting in a determination by sba of affiliation between the franchisor and its franchisees as defined in cfr part and sba standard operating procedure will not be enforced against the franchisee during the life of the sba guaranteed loan. sba form has three locations with drop down menu options at the beginning of the form see example below. once a drop down option is chosen i franchise franchisor and franchisee the user must hit the tab key to automatically populate the appropriate term in all fields. example of drop down options once the drop down options have populated in all three locations the remaining fillable fields must be completed manually see example below. these fields will either be blank or contain the language enter type of or type of agreement. in each of these fields enter the type of agreement. franchise license dealer membership et cetera when completing sba form the text may not be altered except to insert the information required to complete the form. example of fillable fields to be completed manually addendum to franchise agreement this addendum addendum is made and entered into on by and between licensor located at and licensee located at. franchisor and licensee entered into a franchise agreement on such agreement together with any amendments the franchise agreement. licensee is applying for financing from a lender in which funding is provided with the assistance of the. small business administration sba. sba requires the execution of this addendum as a condition for obtaining sba assisted financing. in consideration of the mutual promises below and for good and valuable consideration the receipt and sufficiency of which the parties acknowledge the parties agree that notwithstanding any other terms in the franchise agreement or any other document franchisor requires licensee to sign change of ownership if licensee is proposing to transfer a partial interest in licensee and franchisor has an option to purchase or a right of first refusal with respect to that partial interest franchisor may exercise such option or right only if the proposed transferee is not a current owner or family member of a current owner of licensee. if the franchisor consent is required for any transfer full or partial franchisor will not unreasonably withhold such consent. in the event of an approved transfer of the enter type of interest or any portion thereof the transferor will not be liable for the actions of the transferee licensee. forced sale of assets if franchisor has the option to purchase the business personal assets upon default or termination of the franchise agreement and the parties are unable to agree on the value of the assets the value will be determined by an appraiser chosen by both parties. if the licensee owns the real estate where the licensee location is operating licensee will not be required to sell the real estate upon default or termination but licensee may be required to lease the real estate for the remainder of the enter type of term excluding additional renewals for fair market value. while relationships established under license jobber dealer and similar agreements are not generally described as franchise relationships if such relationships meet the federal trade commission ftc definition of a franchise see cfr they are treated by sba as franchise relationships for franchise affiliation determinations per cfr. sba form page covenants if the licensee owns the real estate where the licensee location is operating franchisor has not and will not during the term of the franchise agreement record against the real estate any restrictions on the use of the property including any restrictive covenants branding covenants or environmental use restrictions. if any such restrictions are currently recorded against the licensee real estate they must be removed in order for the licensee to obtain sba assisted financing. employment franchisor will not directly control hire fire or schedule licensee employees. for temporary personnel franchises the temporary employees will be employed by the licensee not the franchisor. as to the referenced franchise agreement this addendum automatically terminates when sba no longer has any interest in any sba assisted financing provided to the licensee. except as amended by this addendum the franchise agreement remains in full force and effect according to its terms. franchisor and licensee acknowledge that submission of false information to sba or the withholding of material information from sba can result in criminal prosecution under. and other provisions including liability for treble damages under the false claims act. authorized representative of franchisor by print name title authorized representative of licensee by print name title note to parties this addendum only addresses affiliation between the franchisor and licensee. additionally the applicant licensee and the system must meet all sba eligibility requirements. type of agreement sba form page exhibit to the franchise disclosure document required lease terms lease addendum to lease agreement required lease terms the terms and conditions in the attached lease addendum to lease agreement lease addendum must be included in the franchisee lease for the location of the franchised business via execution of the attached lease addendum or through modifications to the actual lease lease addendum to lease agreement lease addendum dated between and landlord name tenant name address of premises. use of premises. during the term of the lease the premises may be used only for the operation of a quick service restaurant under the cold stone creamery system trademarks trade names and logos which specialize in the sale of super premium fresh made ice cream cakes pies smoothies shakespeare specialty beverages soft drinks and other frozen dessert products and any other items sold under the cold stone creamery system. landlord consents to tenant use of such trademarks trade names logos tag lines signs dcor items color schemes and related components of the cold stone creamery franchise system as kahala franchising. franchisor of the cold stone creamery brand franchisor or any of its affiliates may prescribe for cold stone creamery franchisees and which may be altered or changed by franchisor from time to time. assignment and notices. a notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the lease tenant shall have the right to assign the lease and all amendments thereto as applicable including this lease addendum collectively lease and all rights hereunder to franchisor or any of its affiliates or to a third party cold stone creamery franchisee approved by franchisor upon the expiration or termination of the current franchise agreement by and between franchisor and tenant franchise agreement without obtaining landlord consent and without the imposition of any assignment fee or similar charge. landlord shall not accelerate the rent owed hereunder in connection with such assignment so long as franchisor its affiliate or its third party franchisee assumes in writing the obligations of tenant under the lease. nothing in this section.a shall serve to extend the term of the lease or provide franchisor any occupancy rights options to renew or other rights not expressly set forth to tenant in the lease. landlord agrees to furnish franchisor with copies of any and all letters and notices to tenant pertaining to the lease and the premises at the same time that such letters and notices are sent to tenant. landlord further agrees that if it intends to terminate the lease the landlord will give franchisor the same advance written notice of such intent as provided to tenant specifying in such notice all defaults that are the cause of the proposed termination. franchisor shall have the right to cure at its sole option any such default within the time periods granted to tenant under the lease. if neither tenant nor franchisor cures all such defaults within said time periods or such longer cure periods as may be specifically permitted by the lease then the landlord may terminate the lease re enter the premises and or exercise all other rights as set forth in the lease. prior to the expiration or termination of the lease franchisor shall have the right to enter the premises to make any reasonable modifications or reasonable alterations necessary to protect franchisor interest in the cold stone creamery brand and its trademarks trade names logos tag lines signs dcor items color schemes and related components of the cold stone creamery franchise system or to cure any default under the lease and landlord and tenant agree that franchisor shall not be liable for trespass or any other crimes or tort. notices. all notices and demands required to be given hereunder shall be in writing and shall be sent by personal delivery expedited delivery service certified or registered mail return receipt requested first class postage prepaid email or facsimile provided that the sender confirm the facsimile by sending an original confirmation copy by certified transmission to the respective parties at the following addresses unless and until a different address has been designated by written notice to the other parties. if directed to tenant the notice shall be addressed to attn facsimile email if directed to landlord the notice shall be addressed to attn facsimile email if directed to franchisor the notice shall be addressed to kahala franchising. via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona attn real estate department facsimile email leases kahalamgmt.com any notices sent by personal delivery shall be deemed given upon receipt. any notices given by email or facsimile shall be deemed given on the business day of transmission provided confirmation is made as provided above. any notice sent by expedited delivery service or registered or certified mail shall be deemed given three business days after the time of mailing. any change in the foregoing addresses shall be effected by giving fifteen days written notice of such change to the other parties. mailto leases kahalamgmt.com. amendments. landlord and tenant will not amend renew extend or otherwise modify the lease in any manner which would materially affect any of the provisions in this lease addendum without franchisor prior written consent. right of first refusal. landlord and tenant agree that should landlord and tenant desire to terminate the lease prior to the scheduled expiration date landlord will notify franchisor of the proposed termination not less than thirty days in advance of the proposed termination date. franchisor shall have a right of first refusal to assume the lease whereby tenant will assign the lease to franchisor and franchisor will assume all rights and obligations of tenant under the lease. miscellaneous. the terms and conditions of this lease addendum will supersede any conflicting terms of the lease. any capitalized term not specifically defined in this lease addendum shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the lease. in witness whereof the parties hereto by and through their respective representatives authorized to enter into and bind each respective party without further consent or authorization have duly executed and delivered this lease addendum in duplicate as of the date set forth above. landlord a by name title tenant a by name title by name title exhibit to the franchise disclosure document rmcf required lease terms lease addendum to lease agreement required lease terms the terms and conditions in the attached lease addendum to lease agreement lease addendum must be included in the franchisee lease for the location of the franchised business via execution of the attached lease addendum or through modifications to the actual lease lease addendum to lease agreement lease addendum dated between and landlord name tenant name address of premises. use of premises. during the term of the lease the premises may be used only for the operation of a quick service restaurant under the cold stone creamery system trademarks trade names and logos which specialize in the sale of super premium fresh made ice cream cakes pies smoothies shakespeare specialty beverages soft drinks other frozen dessert products any other items sold under the cold stone creamery system and chocolate products including hand dipped chocolates assorted chocolates and candies and chocolate food products such as logoed packaged cocoas and chocolate sauces fresh dried and frozen fruit dipped in chocolate cookies and brownies made from rocky mountain chocolate factory packaged mixes fudges caramel apples nut brittles and popcorn candy as well as chocolate related non food items such as molds cookbooks cards mugs and tins as well as the incidental sale at retail of logo imprinted promotional aprons shirts hats and visors ty plush toys soft drinks excluding daiquiris hot cocoa frozen bananas frozen cheesecake the incidental sale of non gourmet non brand identified brewed coffee the incidental sale of bulk hard candy the incidental sale of soft drinks and for no other purpose provided that tenant may sell at retail such additional products that may from time to time be commonly sold in other rocky mountain chocolate factory stores. landlord consents to tenant use of such trademarks trade names logos tag lines signs dcor items color schemes and related components of the cold stone creamery franchise system with an authorized rocky mountain chocolate factory product offering as kahala franchising. franchisor of the cold stone creamery brand franchisor or any of its affiliates may prescribe for cold stone creamery franchisees with an authorized rocky mountain chocolate factory product offering and which may be altered or changed by franchisor from time to time. assignment and notices. a notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the lease tenant shall have the right to assign the lease and all amendments thereto as applicable including this lease addendum collectively lease and all rights hereunder to franchisor or any of its affiliates or to a third party cold stone creamery franchisee approved by franchisor upon the expiration or termination of the current franchise agreement by and between franchisor and tenant franchise agreement without obtaining landlord consent and without the imposition of any assignment fee or similar charge. landlord shall not accelerate the rent owed hereunder in connection with such assignment so long as franchisor its affiliate or its third party franchisee assumes in writing the obligations of tenant under the lease. nothing in this section.a shall serve to extend the term of the lease or provide franchisor any occupancy rights options to renew or other rights not expressly set forth to tenant in the lease. landlord agrees to furnish franchisor with copies of any and all letters and notices to tenant pertaining to the lease and the premises at the same time that such letters and notices are sent to tenant. landlord further agrees that if it intends to terminate the lease the landlord will give franchisor the same advance written notice of such intent as provided to tenant specifying in such notice all defaults that are the cause of the proposed termination. franchisor shall have the right to cure at its sole option any such default within the time periods granted to tenant under the lease. if neither tenant nor franchisor cures all such defaults within said time periods or such longer cure periods as may be specifically permitted by the lease then the landlord may terminate the lease re enter the premises and or exercise all other rights as set forth in the lease. prior to the expiration or termination of the lease franchisor shall have the right to enter the premises to make any reasonable modifications or reasonable alterations necessary to protect franchisor interest in the cold stone creamery brand and its trademarks trade names logos tag lines signs dcor items color schemes and related components of the cold stone creamery franchise system with an authorized rocky mountain chocolate factory product offering or to cure any default under the lease and landlord and tenant agree that franchisor shall not be liable for trespass or any other crimes or tort. notices. all notices and demands required to be given hereunder shall be in writing and shall be sent by personal delivery expedited delivery service certified or registered mail return receipt requested first class postage prepaid email or facsimile provided that the sender confirm the facsimile by sending an original confirmation copy by certified transmission to the respective parties at the following addresses unless and until a different address has been designated by written notice to the other parties. if directed to tenant the notice shall be addressed to attn facsimile email if directed to landlord the notice shall be addressed to attn facsimile email if directed to franchisor the notice shall be addressed to kahala franchising. via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona attn real estate department facsimile email leases kahalamgmt.com any notices sent by personal delivery shall be deemed given upon receipt. any notices given by email or facsimile shall be deemed given on the business day of transmission provided confirmation is made as provided above. any notice sent by expedited delivery service or registered or certified mail shall be deemed given three business days after the time of mailing. any change in the foregoing addresses shall be effected by giving fifteen days written notice of such change to the other parties. amendments. landlord and tenant will not amend renew extend or otherwise modify the lease in any manner which would materially affect any of the provisions in this lease addendum without franchisor prior written consent. right of first refusal. landlord and tenant agree that should landlord and tenant desire to terminate the lease prior to the scheduled expiration date landlord will notify franchisor of the proposed termination not less than thirty days in advance of the proposed termination date. franchisor shall have a right of first refusal to assume the lease whereby tenant will assign the lease to franchisor and franchisor will assume all rights and obligations of tenant under the lease. miscellaneous. the terms and conditions of this lease addendum will supersede any conflicting terms of the lease. any capitalized term not specifically defined in this lease addendum shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the lease. in witness whereof the parties hereto by and through their respective representatives authorized to enter into and bind each respective party without further consent or authorization have duly executed and delivered this lease addendum in duplicate as of the date set forth above. landlord a by name title tenant a by name mailto leases kahalamgmt.com title by name title exhibit to the franchise disclosure document lease guaranty acknowledgment lease guaranty acknowledgment you have informed kahala franchising. the company that the landlord of the location which you have selected for the operation of your franchised business requires as a condition for you to obtain a lease agreement that you obtain a lease guaranty from the company or any affiliate of the company of your obligations under the lease. you have requested that the company or any affiliate of the company execute and deliver a lease guaranty in favor of the premises landlord for the location you have selected or are considering for your franchised business. you acknowledge that neither the company nor any of its affiliates is required to serve as guarantor of your lease for the site of your franchised business and that a decision whether to serve as guarantor is within the sole and absolute discretion of the company. we are willing to undertake to assist you in obtaining a lease by agreeing to execute and deliver a lease guaranty in form and substance satisfactory to the company and its counsel. in consideration for the execution and delivery of a lease guaranty you hereby acknowledge that you have agreed to pay a lease guaranty fee to the company in an amount equal to the lesser of i ten percent of the total amount of the rental obligations to be guaranteed under the lease during its term and any renewal term inclusive of any charges for real estate taxes common area maintenance insurance or ii ten thousand dollars the lease guaranty fee. the lease guaranty fee will be due and payable to the company upon the company or any affiliate of the company execution of the applicable lease guaranty agreement with the landlord. any capitalized terms not specifically defined in this lease guaranty acknowledgment shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in your cold stone creamery franchise agreement dated. the undersigned understands and acknowledges that i notwithstanding the agreement of the company to execute and deliver a lease guaranty the execution and delivery of such guaranty and any participation of the company and or its agents or employees including without limitation its area representatives and or brand presidents in the negotiation of an loi or a lease and analyzing and or approving site for the location of the franchised business you are solely responsible for conducting a review of the proposed site the loi and lease terms and for final location selection and approval based upon your review your business plan and model ii you have not relied upon the assistance of the company in procuring or in the approval of an loi or lease for the franchised business or in its decision to select any proposed site iii each potential site for the franchised business is unique and provides different risks and benefits which may impact the performance of the franchised business and iv as part of analyzing the proposed site it is your responsibility to meet with the local officials to determine among other things whether any street highway interchange city or other changes are planned in the area or access to the proposed site that could negatively affect the performance of the franchised business. acknowledged and accepted corporation or entity by print name brand concept date exhibit to the franchise disclosure document lease review and or negotiation agreement and release and state addenda lease review and or negotiation agreement and release you have requested that the real estate department of kahala management. company assist you in the review of the lease for your franchised business location which may include participation in the negotiation of the business terms of a lease with the landlord and or broker agent of the landlord for the location lease assistance. you have agreed to pay the company a fee of two thousand five hundred dollars for lease assistance. the company is willing to undertake to assist you in the review and related negotiations. any capitalized terms not specifically defined in this lease review and or negotiation agreement and release shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in your cold stone creamery franchise agreement dated for store number. although company must review your selection of a location and the lease to confirm it meets our minimum site requirements the provisions final approval and execution of the lease remain your sole responsibility. you may require or elect to seek additional information or guidance of others including without limitation independent business and legal advisors of your own choosing other than what is provided by company. this would be your sole responsibility. the services provided by the company real estate department will include only those certain services as detailed in your franchise agreement. the undersigned understands and acknowledges that i notwithstanding any provision by company and or its subsidiaries parent or affiliated companies agents or employees including without limitation its area representatives brand presidents or vice president of operations in the lease assistance for the location of the franchised business you are solely responsible for conducting a review of the proposed site the letter of intent loi and lease terms and for final site selection based upon your review your individual business plan and model ii you have not relied solely upon the lease assistance of company in reviewing negotiating or approving if an loi or lease for the franchised business or in your decision to select any proposed site iii each site for the franchised business is unique and provides different risks and benefits which may impact the performance of the franchised business and iv as part of your analysis of the proposed site for the operation of the franchised business it is your sole responsibility to conduct such due diligence reviews of the geographic area and the shopping center in which the franchised business is to be located as you in your sole discretion deem necessary and advisable including without limitation meeting with the local officials to determine among other things whether any street highway interchange city or other changes are planned in the area or access to the proposed site that could negatively affect the performance of the franchised business. in consideration of the agreement of company to provide lease assistance to you the undersigned hereby fully releases discharges and acquits kahala franchising. company and its respective predecessors successors and assigns parents subsidiaries and affiliated corporations their respective officers directors agents employees and representatives past and present of any and all of such corporations collectively franchisor parties and or their area representatives brand presidents and or vice president of operations from and against any and all claims demands and causes of action whether now existing or hereafter arising known or unknown that he she it or any of his her its parent affiliate or subsidiary companies agents representatives members officers directors or employees may now or in the future have against franchisor parties and or their area representatives brand presidents and or vice president of operations or any of them including without limitation claims demands and causes of action that resulted result or may result from arise out of or relate to in whole or in part directly or indirectly the lease assistance. acknowledged and accepted by print name corporation or entity date by print name date by print name date by print name date addendum to lease review and or negotiation agreement and release for the state of california this addendum to lease review and or negotiation agreement and release for the state of california addendum hereby amends the lease review and or negotiation agreement and release dated lease review agreement from the undersigned to franchisor parties. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this addendum will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the lease review agreement. the lease review agreement is hereby amended by the addition of the following language which shall be considered an integral part of the lease review agreement. general release is incorporated in the lease review agreement. california corporations code voids a waiver of your rights under the franchise investment law california corporations code through. business and professions code voids a waiver of your rights under the franchise relations act business and professions code through. except as set forth in this addendum the terms and provisions of the lease review agreement shall remain in full force and effect. in witness whereof the undersigned by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind the undersigned without further consent or approval of any kind has duly executed and delivered this addendum on. a by name title addendum to lease review and or negotiation agreement and release for the state of hawaii this addendum to lease review and or negotiation agreement and release for the state of hawaii addendum hereby amends the lease review and or negotiation agreement and release dated lease review agreement from the undersigned to franchisor parties. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this addendum will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the lease review agreement. the lease review agreement is hereby amended by the addition of the following language which shall be considered an integral part of the lease review agreement. general release is incorporated in the lease review agreement. if the franchisee is required to execute a release of claims such release shall exclude claims arising under the hawaii franchise investment law. any condition stipulation or provision binding the franchisee to waive compliance with any provision of section east of the hawaii franchise investment law shall be void. each provision of this addendum shall be effective only to the extent that the jurisdictional requirements of the hawaii franchise investment law applicable to the provision are met independent of this addendum. this addendum shall have no force or effect if such jurisdictional requirements are not met. except as set forth in this addendum the terms and provisions of the lease review agreement shall remain in full force and effect. in witness whereof the undersigned by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind the undersigned without further consent or approval of any kind have duly executed and delivered this addendum on. a by name title addendum to lease review and or negotiation agreement and release for the state of illinois this addendum to lease review and or negotiation agreement and release for the state of illinois addendum hereby amends the lease review and or negotiation agreement and release dated lease review agreement from the undersigned to franchisor parties. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this addendum will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the lease review agreement. the lease review agreement is hereby amended by the addition of the following language which shall be considered an integral part of the general release. general release is incorporated in the lease review agreement. if the franchisee is required to execute a release of claims or to acknowledge facts that would negate or remove from judicial review any statement misrepresentation or action that would violate the illinois franchise disclosure act of ilcs or a rule of order under the act such release shall exclude claims arising under the illinois franchise disclosure act and such acknowledgements shall be void with respect to claims under the act. section of the illinois franchise disclosure act states that any condition stipulation or provision purporting to bind any person acquiring any franchise to waive compliance with any provision of this act is void. each provision of this addendum shall be effective only to the extent that the jurisdictional requirements of the illinois franchise disclosure act with respect to each such provision are met independent of this addendum. this addendum shall have no force or effect if such jurisdictional requirements are not met. except as set forth in this addendum the terms and provisions of the lease review agreement shall remain in full force and effect. in witness whereof the undersigned by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind the undersigned without further consent or approval of any kind has duly executed and delivered this addendum on. a by name title addendum to lease review and or negotiation agreement and release for the state of indiana this addendum to lease review and or negotiation agreement and release for the state of indiana addendum hereby amends the lease review and or negotiation agreement and release dated lease review agreement from the undersigned to franchisor parties. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this addendum will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the lease review agreement. the lease review agreement is hereby amended by the addition of the following language which shall be considered an integral part of the lease review agreement. general release is incorporated in the lease review agreement. if the franchisee is required to execute a release of claims or to acknowledge facts that would negate or remove from judicial review any statement misrepresentation or action that would violate the act or a rule of order under the act such release shall exclude claims arising under the indiana franchises act industry code annual and the indiana deceptive franchise practices act industry code annual and such acknowledgements shall be void with respect to claims under the act. each provision of this addendum shall be effective only to the extent that the jurisdictional requirements of the indiana deceptive practices act and the indiana franchises act with respect to each such provision are met independent of this addendum. this addendum shall have no force or effect if such jurisdictional requirements are not met. except as set forth in this addendum the terms and provisions of the lease review agreement shall remain in full force and effect. in witness whereof the undersigned by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind the undersigned without further consent or approval of any kind has duly executed and delivered this addendum on. a by name title addendum to lease review and or negotiation agreement and release for the state of maryland this addendum to lease review and or negotiation agreement and release for the state of maryland addendum hereby amends the lease review and or negotiation agreement and release dated lease review agreement from the undersigned to franchisor parties. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this addendum will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the lease review agreement. the lease review agreement is hereby amended by the addition of the following language which shall be considered an integral part of the lease review agreement. general release is incorporated in the lease review agreement the general release required as a condition of renewal shall not apply to any liability under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. each provision of this addendum shall be effective only to the extent that the jurisdictional requirements of the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law with respect to each such provision are met independent of this addendum. this addendum shall have no force or effect if such jurisdictional requirements are not met. except as set forth in this addendum the terms and provisions of the lease review agreement shall remain in full force and effect. in witness whereof the undersigned by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind the undersigned without further consent or approval of any kind has duly executed and delivered this addendum on. a by name title addendum to lease review and or negotiation agreement and release for the state of michigan this addendum to lease review and or negotiation agreement and release for the state of michigan addendum hereby amends the lease review and or negotiation agreement and release dated lease review agreement from the undersigned to franchisor parties. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this addendum will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the lease review agreement. the lease review agreement is hereby amended by the addition of the following language which shall be considered an integral part of the lease review agreement. general release is incorporated in the lease review agreement. the following provision is void and unenforceable under the michigan franchise investment law. if contained in any documents relating to a franchise requirement that a franchisee assent to a release assignment novation waiver or estoppel which deprives franchisee of rights and protections provided in the act. this shall not preclude a franchisee after entering into a franchise agreement from settling any and all claims. except as set forth in this addendum the terms and provisions of the lease review agreement shall remain in full force and effect. in witness whereof the undersigned by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind the undersigned without further consent or approval of any kind has duly executed and delivered this addendum on. a by name title addendum to lease review and or negotiation agreement and release for the state of minnesota this addendum to lease review and or negotiation agreement and release for the state of minnesota addendum hereby amends the lease review and or negotiation agreement and release dated lease review agreement from the undersigned to franchisor parties. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this addendum will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the lease review agreement. the lease review agreement is hereby amended by the addition of the following language which shall be considered an integral part of the lease review agreement. general release is incorporated in the lease review agreement. minnesota rules. prohibits a franchisor from requiring a franchisee to assent to a release assignment novation or waiver that would relieve any person from liability imposed by minnesota statutes supplement sections circa to circa provided that this part shall not bar the voluntary settlement of disputes. any condition stipulation or provision including any choice of law provision purporting to bind any person who at the time of acquiring a franchise is a resident of this state or in the case of a partnership or corporation organized or incorporated under the laws of this state or purporting to bind a person acquiring any franchise to be operated in this state to waive compliance or which has the effect of waiving compliance with any provision of sections circa to circa or any rule or order thereunder is void under the minnesota franchise act minn. statistical circa each provision of this addendum shall be effective only to the extent that the jurisdictional requirements of the minnesota law applicable to the provision are met independent of this addendum. this addendum shall have no force or effect if such jurisdictional requirements are not met. except as set forth in this addendum the terms and provisions of the lease review agreement shall remain in full force and effect. in witness whereof the undersigned by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind the undersigned without further consent or approval of any kind has duly executed and delivered this addendum on. a by name title https https https https addendum to lease review and or negotiation agreement and release for the state of north dakota this addendum to lease review and or negotiation agreement and release for the state of north dakota addendum hereby amends the lease review and or negotiation agreement and release dated lease review agreement from the undersigned to franchisor parties. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this addendum will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the lease review agreement. the lease review agreement is hereby amended by the addition of the following language which shall be considered an integral part of the lease review agreement. general release is incorporated in the lease review agreement. under north dakota franchise investment law north dakota century code annotated chapter any condition stipulation or provision purporting to bind any person acquiring any franchise to waive compliance with any provision of this chapter or any rule order hereunder is void. the securities commissioner has held the following to be unfair unjust or inequitable to north dakota franchisees section. a general release franchise agreements that require the franchisee to sign a general release upon renewal of the franchise agreement. each provision of this addendum shall be effective only to the extent that the jurisdictional requirements of the north dakota franchise investment law with respect to each such provision are met independent of this addendum. this addendum shall have no force or effect if such jurisdictional requirements are not met. except as set forth in this addendum the terms and provisions of the lease review agreement shall remain in full force and effect. in witness whereof the undersigned by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind the undersigned without further consent or approval of any kind has duly executed and delivered this addendum on. a by name title addendum to lease review and or negotiation agreement and release for the state of new york this addendum to lease review and or negotiation agreement and release for the state of new york addendum hereby amends the lease review and or negotiation agreement and release dated lease review agreement from the undersigned to franchisor parties. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this addendum will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the lease review agreement. the lease review agreement is hereby amended by the addition of the following language which shall be considered an integral part of the lease review agreement. general release is incorporated in the lease review agreement. under new york general business law article section it is unlawful to require a franchisee to assent to a release assignment novation waiver or estoppel which would relieve a person from any duty or liability imposed by this article. each provision of this addendum shall be effective only to the extent that the jurisdictional requirements of new york general business law with respect to each such provision are met. except as set forth in this addendum the terms and provisions of the lease review agreement shall remain in full force and effect. in witness whereof the undersigned by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind the undersigned without further consent or approval of any kind has duly executed and delivered this addendum on. a by name title addendum to lease review and or negotiation agreement and release for the state of rhode island this addendum to lease review and or negotiation agreement and release for the state of rhode island addendum hereby amends the lease review and or negotiation agreement and release dated lease review agreement from the undersigned to franchisor parties. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this addendum will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the lease review agreement. the lease review agreement is hereby amended by the addition of the following language which shall be considered an integral part of the lease review agreement. general release is incorporated in the lease review agreement. under the franchise investment act. gen. law. ch. second a condition stipulation or provision requiring a franchisee to waive compliance with or relieving a person of a duty of liability imposed by or a right provided by this act or a rule or order under this act is void. an acknowledgement provision disclaimer or integration clause or a provision having a similar effect in a franchise agreement does not negate or act to remove from judicial review any statement misrepresentations or action that would violate this act or a rule or order under this act. this section shall not affect the settlement of disputes claims or civil lawsuits arising or brought under this act. each provision of this addendum shall be effective only to the extent that the jurisdictional requirements of the rhode island franchise investment act with respect to each such provision are met independent of this addendum. this addendum shall have no force or effect if such jurisdictional requirements are not met. except as set forth in this addendum the terms and provisions of the lease review agreement shall remain in full force and effect. in witness whereof the undersigned by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind the undersigned without further consent or approval of any kind has duly executed and delivered this addendum on. a by name title addendum to lease review and or negotiation agreement and release for the state of south dakota this addendum to lease review and or negotiation agreement and release for the state of south dakota addendum hereby amends the lease review and or negotiation agreement and release dated lease review agreement from the undersigned to franchisor parties. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this addendum will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the lease review agreement. the lease review agreement is hereby amended by the addition of the following language which shall be considered an integral part of the lease review agreement. general release is incorporated in the lease review agreement. under the south dakota franchise investment law south dakota codified laws title chapter b sections b no person may directly or indirectly in connection with the offer or sale of a franchise disclaim or require a prospective franchisee to waive reliance on any representation made in the disclosure document or in its exhibits or amendments. however this provision is not intended to prevent a prospective franchisee from voluntarily waiving specific contractual terms and conditions set forth in his or her disclosure document during the course of franchise sale negotiations. each provision of this addendum shall be effective only to the extent that the jurisdictional requirements of the south dakota franchise investment law with respect to each such provision are met independent of this addendum. this addendum shall have no force or effect if such jurisdictional requirements are not met. except as set forth in this addendum the terms and provisions of the lease review agreement shall remain in full force and effect. in witness whereof the undersigned by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind the undersigned without further consent or approval of any kind has duly executed and delivered this addendum on. a by name title addendum to lease review and or negotiation agreement and release for the state of virginia this addendum to lease review and or negotiation agreement and release for the state of virginia addendum hereby amends the lease review and or negotiation agreement and release dated lease review agreement from the undersigned to franchisor parties. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this addendum will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the lease review agreement. the lease review agreement is hereby amended by the addition of the following language which shall be considered an integral part of the lease review agreement. general release is incorporated in the lease review agreement. under the virginia retail franchising act virginia code annual any condition stipulation or provision binding any person to waive compliance with any provision of this chapter or of any rule or order thereunder shall be void provided however that nothing contained herein shall bar the right of a franchisor and franchisee to agree to binding arbitration of disputes consistent with the provisions of this chapter. except as set forth in this addendum the terms and provisions of the lease review agreement shall remain in full force and effect. in witness whereof the undersigned by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind the undersigned without further consent or approval of any kind has duly executed and delivered this addendum on. a by name title addendum to lease review and or negotiation agreement and release for the state of washington this addendum to lease review and or negotiation agreement and release for the state of washington addendum hereby amends the lease review and or negotiation agreement and release dated lease review and agreement from the undersigned to franchisor parties. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this addendum will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the lease review agreement. the lease review agreement is hereby amended by the addition of the following language which shall be considered an integral part of the lease review agreement. general release is incorporated in the lease review agreement. the state of washington has a statute rcw. which may supersede the franchise agreement in your relationship with the franchisor including the areas of termination and renewal of your franchise. there may also be court decisions which may supersede the franchise agreement in your relationship with the franchisor including the areas of termination and renewal of your franchise. release or waiver of rights executed by a franchisee shall not include rights under the washington franchise investment protection act except when executed pursuant to a negotiated settlement after the agreement is in effect and where the parties are represented by independent counsel. provisions such as those which unreasonably restrict or limit the statute of limitations period for claims under the act or rights or remedies under the act such as a right to a jury trial may not be enforceable. except as set forth in this addendum the terms and provisions of the lease review agreement shall remain in full force and effect. in witness whereof the undersigned by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind the undersigned without further consent or approval of any kind has duly executed and delivered this addendum on. franchisee a by name title addendum to lease review and or negotiation agreement and release for the state of wisconsin this addendum to lease review and or negotiation agreement and release for the state of wisconsin addendum hereby amends the lease review and or negotiation agreement and release dated lease review agreement from the undersigned to franchisor parties. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this addendum will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the lease review agreement. the lease review agreement is hereby amended by the addition of the following language which shall be considered an integral part of the lease review agreement. general release is incorporated in the lease review agreement. under the wisconsin franchise investment law wisconsin statistical annual any condition stipulation or provision purporting to bind any person acquiring any franchise to waive compliance with any provision of this chapter or any rule or order under this chapter is void. this section does not affect the settlement of disputes claims or civil lawsuits arising or brought under this chapter. each provision of this addendum shall be effective only to the extent that the jurisdictional requirements of the wisconsin law applicable to the provision are met independent of this addendum. this addendum shall have no force or effect if such jurisdictional requirements are not met. except as set forth in this addendum the terms and provisions of the lease review agreement shall remain in full force and effect. in witness whereof the undersigned by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind the undersigned without further consent or approval of any kind have duly executed and delivered this addendum on. a by name title store document exhibit to the franchise disclosure document sublease and guaranty of sublease franchisee pays rent directly to landlord store document store number sublease this sublease sublease is effective as of the date set forth in exhibit attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference executed by leasing entity a sublessor and the sublessee identified in exhibit to this sublease sublessee. whereas sublessor as tenant previously entered into or intends to enter into that certain lease lease in the form of exhibit attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference as may be amended from time to time pursuant to which sublessor leases certain premises premises as described in the lease from the landlord under such lease landlord whereas sublessor and sublessee are parties to a sublease dated as amended collectively the prior sublease. sublessee agrees and acknowledges that it remains liable under the prior sublease up through the date immediately preceding the effective date of this sublease. sublessor and sublessee further acknowledge and agree that the prior sublease is deemed terminated as of and after the effective date of this sublease. whereas sublessee has entered into that certain franchise agreement for cold stone creamery store number franchise agreement with kahala franchising. franchisor whereas pursuant to the franchise agreement the parties and franchisor intend that sublessee will establish and operate a cold stone creamery restaurant at the location identified in the franchise agreement whereas sublessee may only use and occupy the premises as a cold stone creamery restaurant selling cold stone creamery authorized products pursuant to the terms of the franchise agreement and for no other purpose. sublessee may not sell any other items at the premises unless first authorized in writing by the sublessor whereas sublessee has selected the premises for the location of the cold stone creamery restaurant to be established and operated by sublessee whereas in accordance with the franchise agreement sublessor desires to sublease to sublessee and sublessee desires to sublease from sublessor the premises and sublessor rights in the premises pursuant to the lease upon the terms and conditions contained herein now therefore in consideration of the foregoing premises and the terms conditions and covenants set forth in this sublease the parties hereby agree as follows. agreement to sublease. sublessor hereby demises and sublets to sublessee the premises and sublessor grants sublessee all of its respective rights privileges and appurtenances related to the premises and sublessee takes from sublessor the premises for the term as defined in section. assumption. as of the effective date as defined in exhibit and attached hereto sublessee assumes and agrees to abide by all terms and conditions of the lease with respect to the premises and will faithfully perform all obligations required thereunder to be performed by sublessor during the term and any obligations to be performed by sublessor under the lease prior to as of and after the commencement date of the lease as defined in exhibit attached hereto to the extent the same have not been fully performed by sublessor as of the effective date hereof including without limitation any initial construction obligations. compliance with lease. notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein the terms of this sublease and sublessee use occupancy maintenance repair and restoration of the premises are subject and subordinate to the terms covenants conditions agreements and requirements of the lease. sublessee will not commit or permit to be committed on the premises any act or omission which will violate any term or condition of the lease. to enforce the rights of sublessor hereunder sublessor may exercise any and store document all remedies available to landlord under the lease in addition to any other remedies provided hereunder or available at law or in equity. term renewal options. term. this sublease will be effective as of the effective date and will continue for the full term of the lease term as the same may be amended earlier terminated or renewed or extended from time to time pursuant to section. below minus one day. renewal options. if the lease as may be amended by sublessor from time to time contains renewal options sublessee may exercise such options in accordance with this section. provided that as of the time of the giving of the renewal notice no event of default exists or would exist hereunder or under the lease but for the passage of time or the giving of notice or both. to exercise a renewal option sublessee must notify sublessor in writing in accordance with section herein of sublessee intent to exercise such option renewal notice not more than days or less than days before the date that sublessor is required to notify landlord pursuant to the lease of its intention to exercise such option. time is of the essence. notwithstanding the foregoing sublessee acknowledges and agrees that the decision to exercise any renewal option in connection with the lease is solely at the discretion of sublessor. failure to timely deliver renewal notice. if sublessee does not deliver the renewal notice within the time period set forth above sublessee right to exercise the renewal option pursuant to this section will automatically become null and void and of no further force or effect. sublessee exercise of a renewal option as evidenced by the renewal notice will be irrevocable in all events. upon receipt of an effective renewal notice sublessor will undertake to renew the lease for the applicable renewal term and sublessee will indemnify defend and hold sublessor and the indemnified parties as defined in section harmless with respect to the exercise of the renewal term. notwithstanding the foregoing sublessee acknowledges and agrees that the decision to exercise any renewal option in connection with the lease is solely at the discretion of sublessor. rent taxes and insurance. payment of rent. the first month rent as such term is hereinafter defined and the sublease security deposit as defined in section. and set forth on exhibit will be due and payable on the date hereof. sublessee promises to timely pay to landlord without demand deduction or set off regular installments of a all base minimum or fixed rent payable under the lease base rent any percentage rent or other rent based upon sales in at or from the premises percentage rent and any other payments payable under the lease for operating expenses common area expenses utilities marketing funds merchants associations sprinkler fees and any other costs and expenses including any annual reconciliation of the same as applicable collectively operating expenses together with all sales rental and privilege taxes due thereon as required under the lease. the foregoing costs are collectively referred to as rent. payment of taxes and insurance. sublessee promises to timely pay any and all taxes and insurance covering or incurred during the term of this sublease and due as required under the lease or in connection with the premises when billed or invoiced from the respective taxing authority or insurance company whether addressed to sublessor or its affiliate or sublessee without demand deduction or set off including any annual reconciliation as applicable. sales reports. not later than the tenth th day after the end of each calendar month in the term and the fifteenth th day after the end of each calendar year in the term including the last year in the term or such sooner periods as may be set forth in the lease sublessee will submit to sublessor and landlord if the lease requires the delivery of sales reports an itemized and accurate written statement signed by sublessee or its duly authorized officer setting forth in reasonable detail the full amount of lease gross sales as defined below made during the preceding calendar month or year as applicable and certifying to sublessor and landlord that the same is true and correct. if the total amount of percentage rent paid by sublessee for any week month or calendar year during the term including the last calendar year of the term shall be less than the actual amount due from sublessee for such period sublessee will pay to landlord the difference between the amount paid by sublessee and the actual amount due upon demand but in no event later than what is required under the lease. upon three days notice to sublessee sublessor or its store document representatives will have the right to conduct an audit of sublessee books and records relating to lease gross sales at the premises at any time during the term. if such audit reveals that sublessee understated lease gross sales then sublessee will pay to sublessor the costs and expenses of the audit together with interest as defined in section. below from the date percentage rent should have been paid hereunder and any interest late fees or other penalties incurred by sublessor under the lease as a result of such underpayment. sublessee will maintain all books and records relating to sales at the premises for a minimum of three years. the obligations under this section. will survive the expiration or sooner termination of this sublease. lease gross sales. as used herein the term lease gross sales will mean the total gross sales in on from or originating within the premises on which percentage rent if any is payable under the terms of the lease or if not defined therein will mean gross sales as defined in the franchise agreement. late charge. sublessee acknowledges that any late payment by sublessee to landlord of any rent or other payment due to landlord hereunder may result in the assessment of late charges as allowed under the lease if any and that sublessee shall be solely liable for the payment of such late charges. sublessee acknowledges that late payment by sublessee to sublessor of any payment which may be due to sublessor hereunder will cause sublessor to incur costs not contemplated by this sublease the exact amount of such costs being extremely difficult and impractical to determine. therefore if sublessee is delinquent in any installment of such which may be due and payable to sublessor hereunder for more than three days sublessee will pay to sublessor on demand a late charge equal to five percent of such delinquent sum plus any late charges and interest incurred by sublessor under the leaase as a result of such late payment. the parties agree that such late charge represents a fair and reasonable estimate of the costs that sublessor will incur by reason of such late payment by sublessee. the provision for such late charge will be in addition to all of sublessor other rights and remedies hereunder or at law and will not be construed as a penalty. in addition to the foregoing late charge if sublessee is delinquent is any installment of any payment which may be due to sublessor hereunder for more than ten days then such delinquent sum will bear interest at the rate of eighteen percent per annum or the highest rate permitted by law whichever is less interest from the due date until paid in full. sublease security deposit. cash deposit. contemporaneously with sublessee execution hereof sublessee will deposit with sublessor a sublease security deposit which shall not be less than one month base rent in the amount set forth on exhibit sublease security deposit. the sublease security deposit will be held by sublessor as security for the performance of sublessee obligations under this sublease sublessee franchise agreement with franchisor and any other agreement between sublessee or its affiliates and sublessor franchisor or their affiliates. the sublease security deposit is not an advance rental deposit or a measure of sublessor damages in case of sublessee default. upon each occurrence of an event of default hereunder as defined in section below or monies owed to sublessor sublessor or franchisor or their affiliates may use all or part of the sublease security deposit to pay delinquent payments due under this sublease the franchise agreement and any other agreement between sublessee or its affiliates and sublessor franchisor or their affiliates and the cost of any damage injury expense or liability caused by such default without prejudice to any other remedy provided herein or provided by law. sublessee will pay sublessor on demand the amount that will restore the sublease security deposit to its original amount. sublessor obligation respecting the sublease security deposit is that of a debtor not a trustee no interest will accrue thereon unless otherwise required by law. the sublease security deposit will be the property of sublessee but will be refunded to sublessee when sublessee obligations under this sublease the franchise agreement and any other agreement between sublessee or its affiliates and sublessor franchisor or their affiliates have been completely fulfilled. sublessee agrees and acknowledges that the sublease security deposit is separate and distinct from the security deposit held by the landlord in the amount set forth on exhibit lease security deposit. sublessee further agrees and acknowledges that it will be required to deposit with sublessor the sublease security deposit and may be required to reimburse sublessor for the lease security deposit. security agreement. sublessee hereby grants sublessor a security interest and this sublease constitutes a security agreement within the meaning of and pursuant to the uniform commercial code of the state in which the premises is located in and to all of sublessee property situated in or upon or used in store document connection with the premises except merchandise sold in the ordinary course of business collectively collateral as security for all of sublessee obligations hereunder including without limitation the obligation to pay rent and other monetary amounts hereunder. such property thus encumbered includes specifically all trade fixtures and any other fixtures removable by sublessor as tenant pursuant to the lease inventory equipment signage small wares furniture contract rights accounts receivable and the proceeds thereof. sublessee hereby irrevocably authorizes sublessor to file such financing statements and other uniform commercial code filings as sublessor deems appropriate in order to perfect such security interest. sublessee further agrees to execute such other financing statements as reasonably requested by sublessor to further secure sublessor interest under this section. as often as sublessor in its discretion shall require. utilities. sublessee will arrange for and pay for prior to delinquency the cost of any and all electricity water gas sewer telephone and other utilities consumed in the premises commencing on the date sublessee is permitted to access the premises and continuing during the term hereof collectively utilities unless landlord expressly pays for the same pursuant to the lease or the cost thereof is paid by sublessee as operating expenses. such payments will be made directly to the utility provider unless the lease provides otherwise. notwithstanding the foregoing sublessor may elect to arrange for and or pay the cost of such utilities directly to the utility provider. if sublessor so elects then sublessee will pay to sublessor any and all amounts due for such utilities upon demand. any failure to pay the cost of utilities to any utility provider as applicable when due will be deemed a failure to pay rent hereunder and will entitle sublessor to exercise its remedies hereunder. use. sublessee will use the premises solely for the operation of a cold stone creamery restaurant in accordance with the terms and conditions of the lease this sublease and all applicable federal state and local laws and for no other purpose whatsoever. sublessor obligations. subject to the terms of this sublease sublessor is conveying to sublessee only those rights to the premises that it has acquired by virtue of the lease respectively. sublessee acknowledges that the lease sets forth certain landlord obligations which as between sublessor and sublessee sublessor is not obligated to perform. sublessee waives and releases sublessor from any and all claims sublessee may now or hereafter have against sublessor with respect to any and all such obligations and or the contents of the lease or any provision thereof all of which have been read and approved by sublessee. if landlord fails to perform its obligations under the lease sublessee will promptly send sublessor written notice specifically describing the default in detail. upon receipt of such notice sublessor will promptly notify landlord of the alleged default. sublessor will not be obligated to bring or defend any claim or action against landlord and if it declines to do so sublessee at sublessee sole expense will have the right to do so in which event sublessee will indemnify defend and hold harmless the indemnified parties as defined in section below against the same. maintenance repair and alterations. without limiting the generality of section. herein sublessee will maintain the premises in good condition and repair and will perform all of tenant as defined in exhibit maintenance repair and replacement obligations under the lease. sublessee acknowledges that sublessor will have no repair or maintenance obligations with respect to the premises or the shopping center development project in which the premises is located. sublessee will not perform any construction or make any alterations additions or changes to the premises without sublessor prior written consent and if required by the lease landlord written approval. upon the expiration of the term or the sooner termination of this sublease sublessee will surrender the premises in good condition and repair in as good a condition or better than required at the time of sublessor surrender under the lease. assignment and subletting. without the prior written consent of sublessor which consent may be withheld in sublessor sole and absolute discretion a sublessee will not assign transfer convey pledge or mortgage this sublease or any interest therein whether by operation of law or otherwise no interest in sublessee may be assigned transferred conveyed pledged or mortgaged whether by operation of law or otherwise including without limitation a merger or consolidation of sublessee with another entity or the dissolution of sublessee and sublessee will not sublet all or any part of the premises. no assignment of this sublease or subletting of the premises consented to will relieve sublessee of its obligations under this sublease. any assignment transfer conveyance pledge mortgage or subletting in violation of this section will be voidable at the sole option of sublessor. sublessee acknowledges that any assignment or subletting to which sublessor may consent will be conditioned upon landlord consent thereto if landlord consent is store document required under the lease. any assignment of this lease or sublease of the premises by sublessee will be subject to the provisions of section above. risk of loss. except to the extent caused by the intentional misconduct of sublessor and to the fullest extent permitted by law a sublessee assumes all risk of loss of or damage to sublessee property located within the premises or the project including any loss or damage caused by water leakage fire windstorm explosion theft vandalism earthquake act of god or act of any other tenant or third party and sublessee waives any claim demand and action against sublessor for injury death or property damage occurring in or around the premises or project during the term. indemnification. to the fullest extent permitted by law sublessee hereby indemnifies defends with counsel acceptable to sublessor releases and holds harmless sublessor and each of its officers directors affiliates contractors agents attorneys and employees collectively indemnified parties against all claims demands damages losses causes of action and actions of any kind or nature whatsoever and all related costs and expenses including reasonable attorneys fees a for injury death disability or illness of any person or damage to property occurring in or around the premises or project or arising out of sublessee use of the premises or project in connection with or arising from the terms conditions requirements and provisions of the lease or sublessor negotiation or documentation thereof and this sublease and in connection with or arising from any mechanics or materialmens lien or claim filed against the premises for work performed or materials furnished by or on behalf of sublessee except to the extent caused by the intentional misconduct of sublessor. it is expressly agreed that sublessee obligations under this section will survive the expiration or earlier termination of this sublease for any reason. insurance. sublessee will provide such commercial general liability property and other insurance coverages as sublessor may reasonably request with respect to the operation of sublessee business in the premises but in no event less than the insurance coverage required to be carried by tenant pursuant to the lease including loss of rent insurance et cetera the insurance will be with companies reasonably acceptable to sublessor written on an occurrence basis provide primary coverage and name sublessor and sublessor area representative if any and landlord as additional insureds or loss payees as their interests may appear as applicable and as otherwise required of the tenant under the lease. the liability policy will contain a contractual liability endorsement. sublessee will deliver certificates evidencing the insurance required by this section which provide that the insurance may not be cancelled or materially changed in the scope or amount of coverage unless thirty days advance written notice is given to sublessor and landlord. right to inspect. sublessor and its agents employees or representatives will have the right to inspect the premises during business hours to determine sublessee compliance with the terms of this sublease and the lease. acceptance of premises sublessee representations. upon the date that landlord delivers possession of the premises to sublessor and sublessor delivers possession of the premises to sublessee which may occur simultaneously sublessee agrees to accept the premises in an as is condition without representation or warranty. sublessee represents and confirms to sublessor that sublessee has selected the premises for the location of the cold stone creamery restaurant to be established and operated by sublessee and that a no representative agent attorney or employee of sublessor made any representations inducements or promises about the premises the lease or the entry into this sublease no representative agent attorney or employee of sublessor made any representations inducements or promises about the characteristics or conditions regarding or pertaining to the premises or the shopping center development in which the premises is situated sublessee has independently investigated the potential for the success of its operations in the premises and has not relied upon any representations inducements or promises by sublessor representatives agents attorney or employees or any area representative sublessee has concluded that the premises has a reasonable opportunity for success as a cold stone creamery restaurant sublessee has inspected the premises and finds the same in acceptable condition sublessor has made no representation or warranty as to the suitability of the premises for the conduct of sublessor business sublessee waives any implied warranty that the premises are suitable for sublessee intended purposes sublessee accepts full responsibility for the consequences of sublessee decision to operate a cold stone creamery restaurant at the premises in accordance with the terms of this sublease the lease and the franchise agreement and i sublessee has thoroughly reviewed the lease and this sublease and has been advised by its legal counsel regarding the lease and this sublease or sublessee has made a reasoned and store document fully informed decision not to be so represented by counsel and understands and acknowledges the significance and consequences of such decision and sublessee is fully knowledgeable about and is fully satisfied with the terms and provisions and assumes all of its obligations as tenant under the lease and this sublease. sublessee acknowledges that the foregoing representations by sublessee are a material inducement to sublessor execution of this sublease. default. an event of default will occur if at any time during the term a sublessee defaults in the payment of rent or other payment due hereunder and the same is not cured within three days after written notice thereof provided however sublessor will be obligated to give only two such notices in any calendar year with subsequent payment default to be an event of default if such failure to pay continues for a period of three days or more from the date such payment is due without any notice sublessee defaults in any other obligation under this sublease including but not limited to causing or permitting the occurrence of any event which but for the passage of time or the giving of notice or both would constitute a default under the lease and the same is not cured within ten days after written notice thereof or such shorter cure period as may be set forth in the lease sublessee defaults in any obligation under the franchise agreement or any other agreement between sublessor or its affiliates and sublessee or its affiliates and the same is not cured within ten days after written notice thereof any proceeding is begun by or against sublessee to subject the assets of sublessee to any bankruptcy or insolvency law or for an appointment of a receiver of sublessee or for any of sublessee asset or sublessee makes a general assignment of sublessee assets for the benefit of its creditors. upon an event of default sublessor may at any time thereafter at its election a terminate this sublease terminate sublessee right of possession in the premises cure any such default and receive from sublessee as additional rent all costs incurred in doing so plus interest at the lesser of fifteen percent per annum or the highest rate permitted by law exercise any remedy available to landlord under the lease and or pursue any other remedies available at law or in equity. all sublessor remedies provided herein will be cumulative and non exclusive. upon the termination of this sublease or termination of sublessee right of possession it will be lawful for sublessor without formal demand or notice of any kind to re enter the premises by summary dispossession proceedings or otherwise and to remove sublessee and all persons and property therefrom. if sublessor re enters the premises following an event of default sublessor will have the right to keep in place and use or remove and store all of the furniture fixtures equipment signage inventory and other items covered by sublessor lien pursuant to section. hereof. no action taken by sublessor pursuant to this section will relieve sublessee of its obligations under this sublease or will be deemed an act terminating this sublease or declaring the term hereof ended unless notice is served upon sublessee by sublessor expressly setting forth therein that sublessor elects to terminate this sublease or declare the term ended. if following an event of default sublessor terminates this sublease sublessor may recover from sublessee the sum of a all rent and all other amounts accrued hereunder to the date of such termination the cost of reletting the whole or any part of the premises including without limitation brokerage fees and or leasing commissions incurred by sublessor and costs of removing and storing sublessee or any other occupant property and repairing altering remodeling or otherwise putting the premises into condition acceptable to a new tenant or tenants and the landlord all reasonable expenses incurred by sublessor in pursuing its remedies including reasonable attorneys fees and court costs and an amount in cash equal to the then present value of the rent and other amounts payable by sublessee under this sublease as would otherwise have been required to be paid by sublessee to sublessor during the period following the termination of this sublease measured from the date of such termination to the expiration date stated in this sublease. such present value will be calculated at a discount rate equal to the day. treasury bill rate at the date of such termination. if following an event of default sublessor terminates sublessee right of possession but not this sublease sublessor may but will be under no obligation to relet the premises for the account of sublessee for such rent and upon such terms as shall be satisfactory to sublessor without thereby releasing sublessee from any liability hereunder and without demand or notice of any kind to sublessee. if the premises are not relet then sublessee will pay to sublessor as damages a sum equal to the amount of the rental reserved in this sublease for such period or periods plus the cost of recovering possession of the premises store document including attorneys fees and costs of suit the unpaid rent and other amounts accrued hereunder at the time of repossession and the costs incurred in any attempt by sublessor to relet the premises. if the premises are relet and a sufficient sum shall not be realized from such reletting after first deducting therefrom for retention by sublessor the unpaid rent and other amounts accrued hereunder at the time of reletting the cost of recovering possession including attorneys fees and costs of suit all of the costs and expense of repairs changes alterations and additions the expense of such reletting including without limitation brokerage fees and leasing commissions and the cost of collection of the rent accruing therefrom to satisfy the rent provided for in this sublease to be paid then sublessee will immediately satisfy and pay any such deficiency. any such payments due sublessor will be made upon demand therefor from time to time and sublessee agrees that sublessor may file suit to recover any sums falling due from time to time. notwithstanding any such reletting without termination sublessor may at any time thereafter elect in writing to terminate this sublease for such previous breach. brokerage. sublessee represents and warrants that it has dealt with no broker agent or other person in connection with this transaction and that no broker agent or other person brought about this transaction. without limiting the foregoing sublessee will pay to any broker agent or other person all commissions and other compensation that may be due as a result of sublessee dealings with such broker agent or other person in connection with this leasing transaction and will indemnify defend and hold sublessor harmless from and against any claims by any such broker agent or other person claiming a commission or other form of compensation by virtue of actually or allegedly having dealt with sublessee with regard to this leasing transaction. notices. all communications or notices required or permitted to be given or served under this sublease must be in writing and will be deemed to have been duly given or made if a delivered in person or by courier including by federal express or other courier deposited in the united states mail postage prepaid for mailing by certified or registered mail return receipt requested or faxed with confirmed transmission followed by a hard copy in the mail on the next business day and addressed as follows if to sublessor leasing entity attention real estate department. via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona facsimile with a copy to franchising entity attention legal department. via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona facsimile if to sublessee at the premises or as designated in the notice provision of the franchise agreement all communications and notices will be effective upon delivery in person or by courier to the address set forth in this sublease upon being deposited in the united states mail in the manner set forth above or upon being faxed in the manner set forth above. any party may change his her or its address or fax number by giving notice in writing stating his her or its new address or fax number to the other party to this sublease as provided in the foregoing manner. personal property taxes. sublessee will comply with all legal requirements for filing a personal property tax return for and paying all taxes assessed against all personal property equipment and fixtures located within the premises during the term hereof such payment to be made by sublessee directly to the taxing authority on or before the due date thereof. quiet enjoyment. so long as sublessee pays all amounts due hereunder and performs all other covenants and agreements herein set forth and so long as no event of default exists sublessee will peaceably store document and quietly have hold and enjoy the premises for the term hereof without hindrance from sublessor subject to the terms and provisions of this sublease. as this is a sublease sublessee agrees to take the premises subject to the terms of the lease and all matters of record. governing law. this sublease and all questions relating to its validity interpretation performance and enforcement will be governed by and construed interpreted and enforced in accordance with the laws of the state of arizona notwithstanding any arizona or other conflict of laws provisions to the contrary. attorneys fees. if either party should prevail in any litigation or other legal proceeding instituted by or against the other related to this sublease the prevailing party as determined by the court or the like will receive from the non prevailing party all costs and reasonable attorneys fees payable at standard hourly rates incurred in such litigation or other legal proceeding including costs on appeal as determined by the court or the like. sublessee will also pay to sublessor as additional rent sublessor reasonable attorneys fees incurred as a result of any breach or default by sublessee under this sublease. successors and assigns. subject to section hereof which restricts sublessee rights to assign this sublease and its rights hereunder this sublease will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties and their respective assigns legal representatives executors heirs and successors. any attempt by sublessee to assign this sublease or any of its rights hereunder or to delegate its obligations hereunder without compliance with the terms of section will be void. notwithstanding anything contained in this sublease to the contrary sublessor may assign this sublease or any of its rights hereunder or delegate any of its obligations hereunder without the consent of sublessee or any other person. joint and several liability. if sublessee consists of more than one person or entity the obligations hereunder will be joint and several. entire agreement. this sublease including the exhibits hereto and the other agreements contained as exhibits to franchisor operations manual contains the entire understanding and agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes replaces and extinguishes all prior agreements and understandings between the parties with respect to that subject matter. each of the exhibits and other agreements whether between the current parties or a former sublessee is incorporated in this sublease by this reference and constitute a part of this sublease. this sublease supersedes all subleases and agreements of intent to sublet between the parties or their respective affiliates with respect to the premises. counterparts. this sublease may be executed in two or more counterparts each of which will be considered one and the same agreement and will become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties and delivered to the other parties. time is of the essence. time is of the essence as to the performance of the parties obligations under this sublease. waiver of right to jury trial class action and certain damages. in resolving any dispute whether sounding in contract tort or otherwise between sublessor and sublessee arising out of this sublease or any other instrument document or agreement executed in connection herewith or the transactions related hereto sublessee hereby knowingly voluntarily and intentionally waives to the fullest extent permitted by law the right to jury trial or to have jury participate in resolving any dispute the right to initiate or participate in class action in any forum including arbitration and the right to seek or collect punitive consequential and special damages in any forum including arbitration. personal guaranty. if sublessee is an individual and married the obligations and liabilities of sublessee under this sublease shall be personally guaranteed by the sublessee spouse in the form of guaranty attached hereto as exhibit and incorporated herein by reference. if the sublessee is a corporation limited liability company or other business entity the obligations and liabilities of sublessee shall be personally guaranteed by each of the sublessee shareholders members or other owners direct or indirect and their respective spouses if married in the form of a guaranty attached hereto as exhibit and incorporated herein by reference. in the event any person who has not previously signed said guaranty becomes sublessee store document spouse or sublessee shareholder member or other owner direct or indirect or a spouse of such owner at any time after the execution of this sublease sublessee must cause such person to immediately execute and deliver said guaranty of the sublease to sublessor. plurals possessives and captions. words in the singular number include the plural when the context requires and vice versa and defined terms include the possessive when the context requires and vice versa. signature page follows store document store number sublessee signature page sublessee a executed by name title executed by name title state of saints county of on before me personally appeared personally known to me or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person whose name is are subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he she they executed the same in his her their authorized capacity ies and that by his her their signature on the instrument the person or the entity upon behalf of which the person acted executed the instrument. witness my hand and official seal. seal notary public my commission expires store document store number sublessor signature page sublessor leasing entity an arizona by name title state of arizona saints county of maricopa the foregoing sublease was acknowledged before me this day of by the of leasing entity an arizona on behalf of said entity. seal notary public my commission expires store document store number exhibit to sublease effective date of sublease name of sublessee a lease by and between leasing entity tenant and landlord landlord premises address city state zip commencement date of lease expiration date of lease how many option to extend the lease are remaining and option terms year option remaining or lease security deposit currently held by landlord xxx.xx amount set forth in lease verified by but not verified by landlord or sublease security deposit xxx.xx or exercise renewal option notice date to landlord if renewal options remain no earlier than no later than or if no renewal options remain as of the effective date no renewal options remain under the lease. if sublessee is interested in exploring extending the subtenancy after the lease expiration date sublessee is required to notify sublessor of its desire to extend the tenancy no earlier than no later than. store document exhibit to sublease lease agreement store document exhibit to sublease lease verification checklist by initialing below sublessee hereby acknowledges reviewing the attached lease for the premises including all amendments and addendums exhibit and accepts to be bound by all the terms contained therein sublessee acknowledges and agrees to be bound by all of the terms of the lease including but not limited to the following initials current monthly rental payment amounts sublessee acknowledges are subject to periodic increases as detailed in the lease including cam nnn taxes and related fees lease term including any renewal options store document exhibit to sublease guaranty of sublease store document guaranty of sublease in order to induce kahala franchising. franchisor to enter into that certain franchise agreement dated franchise agreement with franchisee and to induce leasing entity an affiliate company of franchisor sublessor to enter into that certain sublease sublease dated with franchisee as sublessee covering the cold stone creamery store located at the undersigned individually and collectively guarantor hereby personally guarantees the payment and performance of and agrees to pay and perform as a primary obligor all liabilities obligations and duties including but not limited to payment of rent imposed upon franchisee as sublessee under the terms of the sublease as if guarantor had executed the sublease as sublessee thereunder. recitals. guarantor is a shareholder partner member or other person or entity interested in effecting the grant of the sublease. without this guaranty of sublease guaranty sublessor cannot be assured that there are sufficient assets to operate the cold stone creamery store or to protect sublessor in the event of a default by sublessee. sublessor is willing to enter into the sublease only if guarantor personally guarantees faithful performance of all the terms of the sublease. guarantor acknowledges guarantor received and read the sublease and all exhibits thereto and agrees to be bound to the obligations in this guaranty with regard to the sublease. agreement. in consideration of the above recitals guarantor personally guarantees for the benefit of sublessor its parent subsidiaries affiliates and successors and assigns the prompt and complete performance of all the covenants and conditions contained in the foregoing sublease. this guaranty is effective until all terms of the sublease have been fully and completely performed by sublessee and shall continue through the entire term of the sublease as may be renewed or extended. no release of sublessee or discharge of sublessee under bankruptcy law or any other law shall impair or effect the obligations of guarantor to sublessor hereunder. sublessor is not required to proceed first against the sublessee but may proceed first against the guarantor alone or concurrent with proceeding against sublessee. the obligations of guarantor hereunder are absolute and unconditional. sublessee and sublessor may from time to time alter or modify the sublease between themselves possibly changing or increasing the extent of guarantor obligation under this guaranty. guarantor consents to any and all modifications or amendments of the sublease and related documents without requiring notice to guarantor or guarantor consent. guarantor agrees specifically to be bound by any confidentiality requirements in the sublease. guarantor waives notice of acceptance of this guaranty and notice of non performance or non payment by sublessee of any of its obligations or liabilities under the sublease. guarantor agrees to pay all attorneys fees costs and expenses incurred by sublessor in enforcing this guaranty whether or not suit or action is filed and if suit or action is filed then through trial and all appeals and also in any proceedings or matter in bankruptcy court guarantor assumes all liability for all losses costs attorney store document of fees and expenses that sublessor incurs as a result of a default by sublessee including those fees and expenses incurred in a bankruptcy proceeding involving sublessee. guarantor hereby agrees that upon notice of default or upon an uncured default of the sublease or any other agreement between guarantor or a legal entity thereof and sublessor or its affiliates and with no prior notice guarantor consents to sublessor or its affiliates or third party contractors acquisition and use of non business consumer credit reports on guarantor in order to evaluate as necessary the financial condition of guarantor as principal member manager franchisee and or guarantor in connection with the collection of monetary obligations as contemplated by the sublease this guaranty a promissory note or any other agreements between guarantor or a legal entity thereof and sublessor or its affiliates. guarantor hereby knowingly consents to the use of such credit reports consistent with the federal fair credit reporting act as contained indiana et seq. this guaranty is personal to guarantor and the obligations and duties imposed herein may not be delegated or assigned provided however that this guaranty shall be binding upon the successors assigns and personal representatives of guarantor. this guaranty shall inure to the benefit of sublessor its affiliates successors and assigns. the undersigned include name here of each of the undersigned who is not married each represents that he she is not married as of the first date set forth above. in the event that any one or more provisions contained herein shall for any reason be held to be invalid illegal or unenforceable in any respect such invalidity illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provision hereof and this guaranty shall be construed to bind guarantor to the maximum extent permitted by law that is subsumed within the terms of such provision as though it were separately articulated herein. this guaranty shall be interpreted and construed under the laws of the state of arizona which laws shall prevail in the event of any conflict of law. any appropriate state or federal court located in maricopa county arizona has exclusive jurisdiction over any case or controversy arising under or in connection with this agreement and is the proper forum in which to adjudicate the case or controversy and the parties hereto irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of any such court. the parties agree that all disputes admitted to the court pursuant to this section shall be tried to the court sitting without jury notwithstanding any state or federal constitutional or statutory rights or provisions. if guarantor consists of two or more persons then each person will be jointly and severally liable under the provisions of this guaranty. guarantor acknowledges i that it is a condition to the granting of the sublease to sublessee that guarantor shall execute and deliver this guaranty to sublessor ii that sublessor has entered into the sublease in reliance upon the agreement of guarantor to do so and iii that as owners of the sublessee if applicable guarantor has received adequate consideration to support its execution of this guaranty. this guaranty does not grant or create in guarantor any interests rights or privileges in any franchise or the franchise agreement. guarantor name an individual name an individual store document exhibit to the franchise disclosure document sublease and guaranty of sublease franchisor or affiliate collects rent from franchisee and pays to landlord store number sublease this sublease sublease is effective as of the date set forth in exhibit attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference executed by leasing entity a sublessor and the sublessee identified in exhibit to this sublease sublessee. whereas sublessor as tenant previously entered into or intends to enter into that certain lease lease in the form of exhibit attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference as may be amended from time to time pursuant to which sublessor leases certain premises premises as described in the lease from the landlord under such lease landlord whereas sublessor and sublessee are parties to a sublease dated as amended collectively the prior sublease. sublessee agrees and acknowledges that it remains liable under the prior sublease up through the date immediately preceding the effective date of this sublease. sublessor and sublessee further acknowledge and agree that the prior sublease is deemed terminated as of and after the effective date of this sublease. whereas sublessee has entered into that certain franchise agreement for cold stone creamery store number franchise agreement with kahala franchising. franchisor whereas pursuant to the franchise agreement the parties and franchisor intend that sublessee will establish and operate a cold stone creamery restaurant at the location identified in the franchise agreement whereas sublessee may only use and occupy the premises as a cold stone creamery restaurant selling cold stone creamery authorized products pursuant to the terms of the franchise agreement and for no other purpose. sublessee may not sell any other items at the premises unless first authorized in writing by the sublessor whereas sublessee has selected the premises for the location of the cold stone creamery restaurant to be established and operated by sublessee whereas in accordance with the franchise agreement sublessor desires to sublease to sublessee and sublessee desires to sublease from sublessor the premises and sublessor rights in the premises pursuant to the lease upon the terms and conditions contained herein now therefore in consideration of the foregoing premises and the terms conditions and covenants set forth in this sublease the parties hereby agree as follows. agreement to sublease. sublessor hereby demises and sublets to sublessee the premises and sublessor grants sublessee all of its respective rights privileges and appurtenances related to the premises and sublessee takes from sublessor the premises for the term as defined in section. assumption. as of the effective date as defined in exhibit and attached hereto sublessee assumes and agrees to abide by all terms and conditions of the lease with respect to the premises and will faithfully perform all obligations required thereunder to be performed by sublessor during the term and any obligations to be performed by sublessor under the lease prior to as of and after the commencement date of the lease as defined in exhibit attached hereto to the extent the same have not been fully performed by sublessor as of the effective date hereof including without limitation any initial construction obligations. compliance with lease. notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein the terms of this sublease and sublessee use occupancy maintenance repair and restoration of the premises are subject and subordinate to the terms covenants conditions agreements and requirements of the lease. sublessee will not commit or permit to be committed on the premises any act or omission which will violate any term or condition of the lease. to enforce the rights of sublessor hereunder sublessor may exercise any and all remedies available to landlord under the lease in addition to any other remedies provided hereunder or available at law or in equity. term renewal options. term. this sublease will be effective as of the effective date and will continue for the full term of the lease term as the same may be amended earlier terminated or renewed or extended from time to time pursuant to section. below minus one day. renewal options. if the lease as may be amended by sublessor from time to time contains renewal options sublessee may exercise such options in accordance with this section. provided that as of the time of the giving of the renewal notice no event of default exists or would exist hereunder or under the lease but for the passage of time or the giving of notice or both. to exercise a renewal option sublessee must notify sublessor in writing in accordance with section herein of sublessee intent to exercise such option renewal notice not more than days or less than days before the date that sublessor is required to notify landlord pursuant to the lease of its intention to exercise such option. time is of the essence. notwithstanding the foregoing sublessee acknowledges and agrees that the decision to exercise any renewal option in connection with the lease is solely at the discretion of sublessor. failure to timely deliver renewal notice. if sublessee does not deliver the renewal notice within the time period set forth above sublessee right to exercise the renewal option pursuant to this section will automatically become null and void and of no further force or effect. sublessee exercise of a renewal option as evidenced by the renewal notice will be irrevocable in all events. upon receipt of an effective renewal notice sublessor will undertake to renew the lease for the applicable renewal term and sublessee will indemnify defend and hold sublessor and the indemnified parties as defined in section harmless with respect to the exercise of the renewal term. notwithstanding the foregoing sublessee acknowledges and agrees that the decision to exercise any renewal option in connection with the lease is solely at the discretion of sublessor. rent taxes and insurance. payment of rent. the first month base rent as defined in this section. the sublease security deposit as defined in section. and set forth on exhibit and the first monthly installment of estimated operating expenses as defined in this section. will be due and payable on the date hereof. sublessee promises to pay to sublessor in advance without demand deduction or set off regular installments of a all base minimum or fixed rent payable under the lease base rent any percentage rent or other rent based upon sales in at or from the premises percentage rent and any other payments payable under the lease for operating expenses common area expenses utilities marketing funds merchants associations sprinkler fees and any other costs and expenses including any annual reconciliation of the same as applicable collectively operating expenses together with all sales rental and privilege taxes due thereon. the foregoing costs are collectively referred to as rent. from and after the commencement date and through the term hereof sublessee will pay to sublessor on the earlier of i the th day of the month or ii the fourth th friday of the month or ii on a day reasonably set by sublessor to ensure timely payment of rent under the lease as applicable due date an amount equal to th of the annual base rent and th of the estimated operating expenses and all applicable taxes thereon as applicable for the following month i sublessee first base rent and estimated operating expense payments payable under this section. will be applied to the second month of the term so that base rent and operating expenses will always be paid one month in advance. to the extent sublessee has paid base rent and estimated operating expenses in advance sublessee will not be obligated to pay the same on the due date the last month of the term. if any of sublessee base rent and operating expenses payments are returned for non sufficient funds sublessor has the option at its sole discretion to collect the base rent and operating expenses payments on a weekly basis one month in advance without prior notice to sublessee. if sublessor exercises this option sublessee will pay to sublessor on each friday for the remainder of the term an amount equal to north dakota of the annual base rent and north dakota of the estimated operating expenses and all applicable taxes thereon at least four weeks in advance of the first of the month for which it is paid by sublessor to landlord. in addition to base rent and estimated operating expenses paid in accordance with section. above commencing on the date of this sublease sublessee will pay percentage rent and any other amounts due hereunder or under the lease in the amounts and the same number of installments due from sublessor as tenant to landlord under the lease which payment will be made by sublessee to sublessor at least ten days before the same is due to landlord under the lease provided however at sublessor election percentage rent will be paid by sublessee in arrears on a weekly basis in which event sublessee will also submit along with each payment of percentage rent a sales report of lease gross sales as defined below for the previous week in the form described in section. below. if requested by sublessor concurrently with sublessee execution hereof or at any time thereafter sublessee will sign a pre authorization enabling sublessor to draw against sublessee bank account for the full amount of the rent and any other amounts due hereunder as and when the same become due. all rent and other payments required to be made by sublessee to sublessor hereunder may be drawn against sublessee bank account by sublessor or at sublessor election will be payable at such address as sublessor may specify from time to time by written notice delivered in accordance herewith. further sublessor may direct sublessee to make full or partial payments of base rent percentage rent and or operating expenses directly to landlord and sublessee will immediately comply with such direction. payment of taxes and insurance. sublessee promises to timely pay any and all taxes and insurance covering or incurred during the term of this sublease and due as required under the lease or in connection with the premises when billed or invoiced from the respective taxing authority or insurance company whether addressed to sublessor or its affiliate or sublessee without demand deduction or set off including any annual reconciliation as applicable. sublessee agrees and acknowledges that taxes and insurance may be collected by sublessor either pursuant to section. above or in such a manner reasonably determined by sublessor to ensure timely payment of any and all taxes and insurance due under the lease or in connection with the premises to the requisite taxing authorities or insurance companies. sales reports. not later than the tenth th day after the end of each calendar month in the term and the fifteenth th day after the end of each calendar year in the term including the last year in the term or such sooner periods as may be set forth in the lease sublessee will submit to sublessor and landlord if the lease requires the delivery of sales reports an itemized and accurate written statement signed by sublessee or its duly authorized officer setting forth in reasonable detail the full amount of lease gross sales made during the preceding calendar month or year as applicable and certifying to sublessor and landlord that the same is true and correct. if the total amount of percentage rent paid by sublessee for any week month or calendar year during the term including the last calendar year of the term shall be less than the actual amount due from sublessee for such period sublessee will pay to sublessor the difference between the amount paid by sublessee and the actual amount due upon demand but in no event later than fifteen days after the end of such calendar year and if the total amount of percentage rent paid by sublessee for any such week month or year shall exceed such actual amount due from sublessee for such period then such excess will be credited against the next installment of rent due from sublessee to sublessor under this sublease or promptly refunded to sublessee if this sublease has expired or otherwise terminated and sublessee is not then in default hereunder. upon three days notice to sublessee sublessor or its representatives will have the right to conduct an audit of sublessee books and records relating to lease gross sales at the premises at any time during the term. if such audit reveals that sublessee understated lease gross sales then sublessee will pay to sublessor the costs and expenses of the audit together with interest as defined in section. below from the date percentage rent should have been paid hereunder and any interest late fees or other penalties incurred by sublessor under the lease as a result of such underpayment. sublessee will maintain all books and records relating to sales at the premises for a minimum of three years. the obligations under this section. will survive the expiration or sooner termination of this sublease. lease gross sales. as used herein the term lease gross sales will mean the total gross sales in on from or originating within the premises on which percentage rent if any is payable under the terms of the lease or if not defined therein will mean gross sales as defined in the franchise agreement. late charge. sublessee acknowledges that late payment by sublessee to sublessor of any rent or other payment due to sublessor hereunder will cause sublessor to incur costs not contemplated by this sublease the exact amount of such costs being extremely difficult and impractical to determine. therefore if sublessee is delinquent in any installment of base rent percentage rent operating expenses or other sums due and payable hereunder for more than three days sublessee will pay to sublessor on demand a late charge equal to five percent of such delinquent sum plus any late charges and interest incurred by sublessor under the lease as a result of such late payment. the parties agree that such late charge represents a fair and reasonable estimate of the costs that sublessor will incur by reason of such late payment by sublessee. the provision for such late charge will be in addition to all of sublessor other rights and remedies hereunder or at law and will not be construed as a penalty. in addition to the foregoing late charge if sublessee is delinquent in any installment of rent or other payments due hereunder for more than ten days then such delinquent sum will bear interest at the rate of eighteen percent per annum or the highest rate permitted by law whichever is less interest from the due date until paid in full. sublease security deposit. cash deposit. contemporaneously with sublessee execution hereof sublessee will deposit with sublessor a sublease security deposit which shall not be less than one month base rent in the amount set forth on exhibit sublease security deposit. the sublease security deposit will be held by sublessor as security for the performance of sublessee obligations under this sublease sublessee franchise agreement with franchisor and any other agreement between sublessee or its affiliates and sublessor franchisor or their affiliates. the sublease security deposit is not an advance rental deposit or a measure of sublessor damages in case of sublessee default. upon each occurrence of an event of default hereunder as defined in section below or monies owed to sublessor sublessor or franchisor or their affiliates may use all or part of the sublease security deposit to pay delinquent payments due under this sublease the franchise agreement and any other agreement between sublessee or its affiliates and sublessor franchisor or their affiliates and the cost of any damage injury expense or liability caused by such default without prejudice to any other remedy provided herein or provided by law. sublessee will pay sublessor on demand or sublessor may draw on sublessee bank account the amount that will restore the sublease security deposit to its original amount. sublessor obligation respecting the sublease security deposit is that of a debtor not a trustee no interest will accrue thereon unless otherwise required by law. the sublease security deposit will be the property of sublessee but will be refunded to sublessee when sublessee obligations under this sublease the franchise agreement and any other agreement between sublessee or its affiliates and sublessor franchisor or their affiliates have been completely fulfilled. sublessee agrees and acknowledges that the sublease security deposit is separate and distinct from the security deposit held by the landlord in the amount set forth on exhibit lease security deposit. sublessee further agrees and acknowledges that it will be required to deposit with sublessor the sublease security deposit and may be required to reimburse sublessor for the lease security deposit. security agreement. sublessee hereby grants sublessor a security interest and this sublease constitutes a security agreement within the meaning of and pursuant to the uniform commercial code of the state in which the premises is located in and to all of sublessee property situated in or upon or used in connection with the premises except merchandise sold in the ordinary course of business collectively collateral as security for all of sublessee obligations hereunder including without limitation the obligation to pay rent and other monetary amounts hereunder. such property thus encumbered includes specifically all trade fixtures and any other fixtures removable by sublessor as tenant pursuant to the lease inventory equipment signage small wares furniture contract rights accounts receivable and the proceeds thereof. sublessee hereby irrevocably authorizes sublessor to file such financing statements and other uniform commercial code filings as sublessor deems appropriate in order to perfect such security interest. sublessee further agrees to execute such other financing statements as reasonably requested by sublessor to further secure sublessor interest under this section. as often as sublessor in its discretion shall require. utilities. sublessee will arrange for and pay for prior to delinquency the cost of any and all electricity water gas sewer telephone and other utilities consumed in the premises commencing on the date sublessee is permitted to access the premises and continuing during the term hereof collectively utilities unless landlord expressly pays for the same pursuant to the lease or the cost thereof is paid by sublessee as operating expenses. such payments will be made directly to the utility provider unless the lease provides otherwise. notwithstanding the foregoing sublessor may elect to arrange for and or pay the cost of such utilities directly to the utility provider. if sublessor so elects then sublessee will pay to sublessor any and all amounts due for such utilities upon demand. sublessor may draw against sublessee bank account from time to time for the full amount of the cost of such utilities or sublessee reasonable estimate of the costs thereof. any failure to pay the cost of utilities to sublessor or any utility provider as applicable when due will be deemed a failure to pay rent hereunder and will entitle sublessor to exercise its remedies hereunder. use. sublessee will use the premises solely for the operation of a cold stone creamery restaurant in accordance with the terms and conditions of the lease this sublease and all applicable federal state and local laws and for no other purpose whatsoever. sublessor obligations. subject to the terms of this sublease sublessor is conveying to sublessee only those rights to the premises that it has acquired by virtue of the lease respectively. sublessee acknowledges that the lease sets forth certain landlord obligations which as between sublessor and sublessee sublessor is not obligated to perform. sublessee waives and releases sublessor from any and all claims sublessee may now or hereafter have against sublessor with respect to any and all such obligations and or the contents of the lease or any provision thereof all of which have been read and approved by sublessee. if landlord fails to perform its obligations under the lease sublessee will promptly send sublessor written notice specifically describing the default in detail. upon receipt of such notice sublessor will promptly notify landlord of the alleged default. sublessor will not be obligated to bring or defend any claim or action against landlord and if it declines to do so sublessee at sublessee sole expense will have the right to do so in which event sublessee will indemnify defend and hold harmless the indemnified parties as defined in section below against the same. maintenance repair and alterations. without limiting the generality of section. herein sublessee will maintain the premises in good condition and repair and will perform all of tenant as defined in exhibit maintenance repair and replacement obligations under the lease. sublessee acknowledges that sublessor will have no repair or maintenance obligations with respect to the premises or the shopping center development project in which the premises is located. sublessee will not perform any construction or make any alterations additions or changes to the premises without sublessor prior written consent and if required by the lease landlord written approval. upon the expiration of the term or the sooner termination of this sublease sublessee will surrender the premises in good condition and repair in as good a condition or better than required at the time of sublessor surrender under the lease. assignment and subletting. without the prior written consent of sublessor which consent may be withheld in sublessor sole and absolute discretion a sublessee will not assign transfer convey pledge or mortgage this sublease or any interest therein whether by operation of law or otherwise no interest in sublessee may be assigned transferred conveyed pledged or mortgaged whether by operation of law or otherwise including without limitation a merger or consolidation of sublessee with another entity or the dissolution of sublessee and sublessee will not sublet all or any part of the premises. no assignment of this sublease or subletting of the premises consented to will relieve sublessee of its obligations under this sublease. any assignment transfer conveyance pledge mortgage or subletting in violation of this section will be voidable at the sole option of sublessor. sublessee acknowledges that any assignment or subletting to which sublessor may consent will be conditioned upon landlord consent thereto if landlord consent is required under the lease. any assignment of this lease or sublease of the premises by sublessee will be subject to the provisions of section above. risk of loss. except to the extent caused by the intentional misconduct of sublessor and to the fullest extent permitted by law a sublessee assumes all risk of loss of or damage to sublessee property located within the premises or the project including any loss or damage caused by water leakage fire windstorm explosion theft vandalism earthquake act of god or act of any other tenant or third party and sublessee waives any claim demand and action against sublessor for injury death or property damage occurring in or around the premises or project during the term. indemnification. to the fullest extent permitted by law sublessee hereby indemnifies defends with counsel acceptable to sublessor releases and holds harmless sublessor and each of its officers directors affiliates contractors agents attorneys and employees collectively indemnified parties against all claims demands damages losses causes of action and actions of any kind or nature whatsoever and all related costs and expenses including reasonable attorneys fees a for injury death disability or illness of any person or damage to property occurring in or around the premises or project or arising out of sublessee use of the premises or project in connection with or arising from the terms conditions requirements and provisions of the lease or sublessor negotiation or documentation thereof and this sublease and in connection with or arising from any mechanics or materialmens lien or claim filed against the premises for work performed or materials furnished by or on behalf of sublessee except to the extent caused by the intentional misconduct of sublessor. it is expressly agreed that sublessee obligations under this section will survive the expiration or earlier termination of this sublease for any reason. insurance. sublessee will provide such commercial general liability property and other insurance coverages as sublessor may reasonably request with respect to the operation of sublessee business in the premises but in no event less than the insurance coverage required to be carried by tenant pursuant to the lease including loss of rent insurance et cetera the insurance will be with companies reasonably acceptable to sublessor written on an occurrence basis provide primary coverage and name sublessor and sublessor area representative if any and landlord as additional insureds or loss payees as their interests may appear as applicable and as otherwise required of the tenant under the lease. the liability policy will contain a contractual liability endorsement. sublessee will deliver certificates evidencing the insurance required by this section which provide that the insurance may not be cancelled or materially changed in the scope or amount of coverage unless thirty days advance written notice is given to sublessor and landlord. right to inspect. sublessor and its agents employees or representatives will have the right to inspect the premises during business hours to determine sublessee compliance with the terms of this sublease and the lease. acceptance of premises sublessee representations. upon the date that landlord delivers possession of the premises to sublessor and sublessor delivers possession of the premises to sublessee which may occur simultaneously sublessee agrees to accept the premises in an as is condition without representation or warranty. sublessee represents and confirms to sublessor that sublessee has selected the premises for the location of the cold stone creamery restaurant to be established and operated by sublessee and that a no representative agent attorney or employee of sublessor made any representations inducements or promises about the premises the lease or the entry into this sublease no representative agent attorney or employee of sublessor made any representations inducements or promises about the characteristics or conditions regarding or pertaining to the premises or the shopping center development in which the premises is situated sublessee has independently investigated the potential for the success of its operations in the premises and has not relied upon any representations inducements or promises by sublessor representatives agents attorney or employees or any area representative sublessee has concluded that the premises has a reasonable opportunity for success as a cold stone creamery restaurant sublessee has inspected the premises and finds the same in acceptable condition sublessor has made no representation or warranty as to the suitability of the premises for the conduct of sublessor business sublessee waives any implied warranty that the premises are suitable for sublessee intended purposes sublessee accepts full responsibility for the consequences of sublessee decision to operate a cold stone creamery restaurant at the premises in accordance with the terms of this sublease the lease and the franchise agreement and i sublessee has thoroughly reviewed the lease and this sublease and has been advised by its legal counsel regarding the lease and this sublease or sublessee has made a reasoned and fully informed decision not to be so represented by counsel and understands and acknowledges the significance and consequences of such decision and sublessee is fully knowledgeable about and is fully satisfied with the terms and provisions and assumes all of its obligations as tenant under the lease and this sublease. sublessee acknowledges that the foregoing representations by sublessee are a material inducement to sublessor execution of this sublease. default. an event of default will occur if at any time during the term a sublessee defaults in the payment of base rent percentage rent operating expenses or any other rent or other payment due hereunder and the same is not cured within three days after written notice thereof provided however sublessor will be obligated to give only two such notices in any calendar year with subsequent payment default to be an event of default if such failure to pay continues for a period of three days or more from the date such payment is due without any notice sublessee defaults in any other obligation under this sublease including but not limited to causing or permitting the occurrence of any event which but for the passage of time or the giving of notice or both would constitute a default under the lease and the same is not cured within ten days after written notice thereof or such shorter cure period as may be set forth in the lease sublessee defaults in any obligation under the franchise agreement or any other agreement between sublessor or its affiliates and sublessee or its affiliates and the same is not cured within ten days after written notice thereof any proceeding is begun by or against sublessee to subject the assets of sublessee to any bankruptcy or insolvency law or for an appointment of a receiver of sublessee or for any of sublessee assets or sublessee makes a general assignment of sublessee assets for the benefit of its creditors. upon an event of default sublessor may at any time thereafter at its election a terminate this sublease terminate sublessee right of possession in the premises cure any such default and receive from sublessee as additional rent all costs incurred in doing so plus interest at the lesser of fifteen percent per annum or the highest rate permitted by law exercise any remedy available to landlord under the lease and or pursue any other remedies available at law or in equity. all sublessor remedies provided herein will be cumulative and non exclusive. upon the termination of this sublease or termination of sublessee right of possession it will be lawful for sublessor without formal demand or notice of any kind to re enter the premises by summary dispossession proceedings or otherwise and to remove sublessee and all persons and property therefrom. if sublessor re enters the premises following an event of default sublessor will have the right to keep in place and use or remove and store all of the furniture fixtures equipment signage inventory and other items covered by sublessor lien pursuant to section. hereof. no action taken by sublessor pursuant to this section will relieve sublessee of its obligations under this sublease or will be deemed an act terminating this sublease or declaring the term hereof ended unless notice is served upon sublessee by sublessor expressly setting forth therein that sublessor elects to terminate this sublease or declare the term ended. if following an event of default sublessor terminates this sublease sublessor may recover from sublessee the sum of a all rent and all other amounts accrued hereunder to the date of such termination the cost of reletting the whole or any part of the premises including without limitation brokerage fees and or leasing commissions incurred by sublessor and costs of removing and storing sublessee or any other occupant property and repairing altering remodeling or otherwise putting the premises into condition acceptable to a new tenant or tenants and the landlord all reasonable expenses incurred by sublessor in pursuing its remedies including reasonable attorneys fees and court costs and an amount in cash equal to the then present value of the rent and other amounts payable by sublessee under this sublease as would otherwise have been required to be paid by sublessee to sublessor during the period following the termination of this sublease measured from the date of such termination to the expiration date stated in this sublease. such present value will be calculated at a discount rate equal to the day. treasury bill rate at the date of such termination. if following an event of default sublessor terminates sublessee right of possession but not this sublease sublessor may but will be under no obligation to relet the premises for the account of sublessee for such rent and upon such terms as shall be satisfactory to sublessor without thereby releasing sublessee from any liability hereunder and without demand or notice of any kind to sublessee. if the premises are not relet then sublessee will pay to sublessor as damages a sum equal to the amount of the rental reserved in this sublease for such period or periods plus the cost of recovering possession of the premises including attorneys fees and costs of suit the unpaid rent and other amounts accrued hereunder at the time of repossession and the costs incurred in any attempt by sublessor to relet the premises. if the premises are relet and a sufficient sum shall not be realized from such reletting after first deducting therefrom for retention by sublessor the unpaid rent and other amounts accrued hereunder at the time of reletting the cost of recovering possession including attorneys fees and costs of suit all of the costs and expense of repairs changes alterations and additions the expense of such reletting including without limitation brokerage fees and leasing commissions and the cost of collection of the rent accruing therefrom to satisfy the rent provided for in this sublease to be paid then sublessee will immediately satisfy and pay any such deficiency. any such payments due sublessor will be made upon demand therefor from time to time and sublessee agrees that sublessor may file suit to recover any sums falling due from time to time. notwithstanding any such reletting without termination sublessor may at any time thereafter elect in writing to terminate this sublease for such previous breach. brokerage. sublessee represents and warrants that it has dealt with no broker agent or other person in connection with this transaction and that no broker agent or other person brought about this transaction. without limiting the foregoing sublessee will pay to any broker agent or other person all commissions and other compensation due as a result of sublessee dealings with such broker agent or other person in connection with this leasing transaction and will indemnify defend and hold sublessor harmless from and against any claims by such broker agent or other person claiming a commission or other form of compensation by virtue of actually or allegedly having dealt with sublessee with regard to this leasing transaction. notices. all communications or notices required or permitted to be given or served under this sublease must be in writing and will be deemed to have been duly given or made if a delivered in person or by courier including by federal express or other courier deposited in the united states mail postage prepaid for mailing by certified or registered mail return receipt requested or faxed with confirmed transmission followed by a hard copy in the mail on the next business day and addressed as follows if to sublessor leasing entity attention real estate department. via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona facsimile with a copy to franchising entity attention legal department. via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona facsimile if to sublessee at the premises or as designated in the notice provision of the franchise agreement facsimile see exhibit all communications and notices will be effective upon delivery in person or by courier to the address set forth in this sublease upon being deposited in the united states mail in the manner set forth above or upon being faxed in the manner set forth above. any party may change his her or its address or fax number by giving notice in writing stating his her or its new address or fax number to the other party to this sublease as provided in the foregoing manner. personal property taxes. sublessee will comply with all legal requirements for filing a personal property tax return for and paying all taxes assessed against all personal property equipment and fixtures located within the premises during the term hereof such payment to be made by sublessee directly to the taxing authority on or before the due date thereof. quiet enjoyment. so long as sublessee pays all amounts due hereunder and performs all other covenants and agreements herein set forth and so long as no event of default exists sublessee will peaceably and quietly have hold and enjoy the premises for the term hereof without hindrance from sublessor subject to the terms and provisions of this sublease. as this is a sublease sublessee agrees to take the premises subject to the terms of the lease and all matters of record. governing law. this sublease and all questions relating to its validity interpretation performance and enforcement will be governed by and construed interpreted and enforced in accordance with the laws of the state of arizona notwithstanding any arizona or other conflict of laws provisions to the contrary. attorneys fees. if either party should prevail in any litigation or other legal proceeding instituted by or against the other related to this sublease the prevailing party as determined by the court or the like will receive from the non prevailing party all costs and reasonable attorneys fees payable at standard hourly rates incurred in such litigation or other legal proceeding including costs on appeal as determined by the court or the like. sublessee will also pay to sublessor as additional rent sublessor reasonable attorneys fees incurred as a result of any breach or default by sublessee under this sublease. successors and assigns. subject to section of this sublease which restricts sublessee rights to assign this sublease and its rights hereunder this sublease will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties and their respective assigns legal representatives executors heirs and successors. any attempt by sublessee to assign this sublease or any of its rights hereunder or to delegate its obligations hereunder without compliance with the terms of section will be void. notwithstanding anything contained in this sublease to the contrary sublessor may assign this sublease or any of its rights hereunder or delegate any of its obligations hereunder without the consent of sublessee or any other person. joint and several liability. if sublessee consists of more than one person or entity the obligations hereunder will be joint and several. entire agreement. this sublease including the exhibits hereto and the other agreements contained as exhibits to franchisor operations manual contains the entire understanding and agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes replaces and extinguishes all prior agreements and understandings between the parties with respect to that subject matter. each of the exhibits and other agreements whether between the current parties or a former sublessee is incorporated in this sublease by this reference and constitute a part of this sublease. this sublease supersedes all subleases and agreements of intent to sublet between the parties or their respective affiliates with respect to the premises. counterparts. this sublease may be executed in two or more counterparts each of which will be considered one and the same agreement and will become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties and delivered to the other parties. time is of the essence. time is of the essence as to the performance of the parties obligations under this sublease. waiver of right to jury trial class action and certain damages. in resolving any dispute whether sounding in contract tort or otherwise between sublessor and sublessee arising out of this sublease or any other instrument document or agreement executed in connection herewith or the transactions related hereto sublessee hereby knowingly voluntarily and intentionally waives to the fullest extent permitted by law the right to jury trial or to have jury participate in resolving any dispute the right to initiate or participate in class action in any forum including arbitration and the right to seek or collect punitive consequential and special damages in any forum including arbitration. personal guaranty. if sublessee is an individual and married the obligations and liabilities of sublessee under this sublease shall be personally guaranteed by the sublessee spouse in the form of guaranty attached hereto as exhibit and incorporated herein by reference. if the sublessee is a corporation limited liability company or other business entity the obligations and liabilities of sublessee shall be personally guaranteed by each of the sublessee shareholders members or other owners direct or indirect and their respective spouses if married in the form of a guaranty attached hereto as exhibit and incorporated herein by reference. in the event any person who has not previously signed said guaranty becomes sublessee spouse or sublessee shareholder member or other owner direct or indirect or a spouse of such owner at any time after the execution of this sublease sublessee must cause such person to immediately execute and deliver said guaranty of the sublease to sublessor. plurals possessives and captions. words in the singular number include the plural when the context requires and vice versa and defined terms include the possessive when the context requires and vice versa. signature page follows store document store number sublessee signature page sublessee a executed by name title executed by name title state of saints county of on before me personally appeared personally known to me or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person whose name is are subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he she they executed the same in his her their authorized capacity ies and that by his her their signature on the instrument the person or the entity upon behalf of which the person acted executed the instrument. witness my hand and official seal. seal notary public my commission expires store number sublessor signature page sublessor leasing entity an arizona by name title state of arizona saints county of maricopa the foregoing sublease was acknowledged before me this day of by the of leasing entity an arizona on behalf of said entity. seal notary public my commission expires store document store number exhibit to sublease effective date of sublease name of sublessee a lease by and between leasing entity tenant and landlord landlord premises address city state zip commencement date of lease expiration date of lease how many option to extend the lease are remaining and option terms year option remaining or lease security deposit currently held by landlord xxx.xx amount set forth in lease verified by but not verified by landlord or sublease security deposit xxx.xx or exercise renewal option notice date to landlord if renewal options remain no earlier than no later than or if no renewal options remain as of the effective date no renewal options remain under the lease. if sublessee is interested in exploring extending the subtenancy after the lease expiration date sublessee is required to notify sublessor of its desire to extend the tenancy no earlier than no later than. store document exhibit to sublease lease agreement store document exhibit to sublease lease verification checklist by initialing below sublessee hereby acknowledges reviewing the attached lease for the premises including all amendments and addendums exhibit and accepts to be bound by all the terms contained therein sublessee acknowledges and agrees to be bound by all of the terms of the lease including but not limited to the following initials current monthly rental payment amounts sublessee acknowledges are subject to periodic increases as detailed in the lease including cam nnn taxes and related fees lease term including any renewal options store document exhibit to sublease guaranty of sublease store document guaranty of sublease in order to induce kahala franchising. franchisor to enter into that certain franchise agreement dated franchise agreement with franchisee and to induce leasing entity an affiliate company of franchisor sublessor to enter into that certain sublease sublease dated with franchisee as sublessee covering the cold stone creamery store located at the undersigned individually and collectively guarantor hereby personally guarantees the payment and performance of and agrees to pay and perform as a primary obligor all liabilities obligations and duties including but not limited to payment of rent imposed upon franchisee as sublessee under the terms of the sublease as if guarantor had executed the sublease as sublessee thereunder. recitals. guarantor is a shareholder partner member or other person or entity interested in effecting the grant of the sublease. without this guaranty of sublease guaranty sublessor cannot be assured that there are sufficient assets to operate the cold stone creamery store or to protect sublessor in the event of a default by sublessee. sublessor is willing to enter into the sublease only if guarantor personally guarantees faithful performance of all the terms of the sublease. guarantor acknowledges guarantor received and read the sublease and all exhibits thereto and agrees to be bound to the obligations in this guaranty with regard to the sublease. agreement. in consideration of the above recitals guarantor personally guarantees for the benefit of sublessor its parent subsidiaries affiliates and successors and assigns the prompt and complete performance of all the covenants and conditions contained in the foregoing sublease. this guaranty is effective until all terms of the sublease have been fully and completely performed by sublessee and shall continue through the entire term of the sublease as may be renewed or extended. no release of sublessee or discharge of sublessee under bankruptcy law or any other law shall impair or effect the obligations of guarantor to sublessor hereunder. sublessor is not required to proceed first against the sublessee but may proceed first against guarantor alone or concurrent with proceeding against sublessee. the obligations of guarantor hereunder are absolute and unconditional. sublessee and sublessor may from time to time alter or modify the sublease between themselves possibly changing or increasing the extent of guarantor obligation under this guaranty. guarantor consents to any and all modifications or amendments of the sublease related documents without requiring notice to guarantor or guarantor consent. guarantor agrees specifically to be bound by any confidentiality requirements in the sublease. guarantor waives notice of acceptance of this guaranty and notice of non performance or non payment by sublessee of any of its obligations or liabilities under the sublease. guarantor agrees to pay all attorneys fees costs and expenses incurred by sublessor in enforcing this guaranty whether or not suit or action is filed and if suit or action is filed then through trial and all appeals and also in any proceedings or matter in bankruptcy court guarantor assumes all liability for all store. document of losses costs attorney fees and expenses that sublessor incurs as a result of a default by sublessee including those fees and expenses incurred in a bankruptcy proceeding involving sublessee. guarantor hereby agrees that upon notice of default or upon an uncured default of the sublease or any other agreement between guarantor or a legal entity thereof and sublessor or its affiliates and with no prior notice guarantor consents to sublessor or its affiliates or third party contractors acquisition and use of non business consumer credit reports on guarantor in order to evaluate as necessary the financial condition of guarantor as principal member manager franchisee and or guarantor in connection with the collection of monetary obligations as contemplated by the franchise agreement the sublease this guaranty a promissory note or any other agreements between guarantor or a legal entity thereof and sublessor or its affiliates. guarantor hereby knowingly consents to the use of such credit reports consistent with the federal fair credit reporting act as contained indiana et seq. this guaranty is personal to guarantor and the obligations and duties imposed herein may not be delegated or assigned provided however that this guaranty shall be binding upon the successors assigns and personal representatives of guarantor. this guaranty shall inure to the benefit of sublessor its affiliates successors and assigns. the undersigned include name here of each of the undersigned who is not married each represents that he she is not married as of the date first set forth above. in the event that any one or more provisions contained herein shall for any reason be held to be invalid illegal or unenforceable in any respect such invalidity illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provision hereof and this guaranty shall be construed to bind guarantor to the maximum extent permitted by law that is subsumed within the terms of such provision as though it were separately articulated herein. this guaranty shall be interpreted and construed under the laws of the state of arizona which laws shall prevail in the event of any conflict of law. any appropriate state or federal court located in maricopa county phoenix arizona has exclusive jurisdiction over any case or controversy arising under or in connection with this agreement and is the proper forum in which to adjudicate the case or controversy and the parties hereto irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of any such court. the parties agree that all disputes admitted to the court pursuant to this section shall be tried to the court sitting without jury notwithstanding any state or federal constitutional or statutory rights or provisions. if guarantor consists of two or more persons then each person will be jointly and severally liable under the provisions of this guaranty. guarantor acknowledges i that it is a condition to the granting of the sublease to sublessee that guarantor shall execute and deliver this guaranty to sublessor ii that sublessor has entered into the sublease in reliance upon the agreement of guarantor to do so and iii that as owners of the sublessee if applicable guarantor has received adequate consideration to support its execution of this guaranty. this guaranty does not grant or create in the undersigned any interests rights or privileges in any franchise or the franchise agreement. guarantor name an individual name an individual exhibit to the franchise disclosure document pre authorized electronic funds transfer form electronic funds transfer eft authorization franchisee information franchisee name store number franchisee phone number franchisee mailing address street city state zip contact name address and phone number if different than above employer identification number if applicable principal name and social security number bank account information bank name bank account number bank routing number characters bank mailing address street city state zip bank phone number payment authorization franchisee hereby authorizes kahala franchising. its affiliates or agents payee to initiate withdrawals from the bank account indicated on this form and hereby authorizes the bank to honor and debit the bank account for electronic funds transfers or drafts drawn on the bank account and payable to payee. the amount of such charge shall be set forth in a notice from the payee presented to the bank on the day of the week set forth in franchisee franchise agreement promissory note and security agreement gift card participation agreement or similar agreement for the gift card program and any other agreement franchisee signs that authorizes payee its affiliate or agent to debit franchisee account for the fees which may be modified by kahala franchising. its affiliates or agents for the payment of royalty fees advertising fees pos support fees gift card and gifting program fees and funds flow and any other fees charges and other amounts payable to payee its affiliates or agents for any services payee its affiliates or agents provide or facilitate. franchisee agrees to execute such additional documents as may be reasonably requested by payee or the bank to evidence the interest of this eft authorization. this authority shall remain in full force and effect until payee has received written notification from franchisee in such time and manner as to afford payee and the bank to act on such notice. franchisee understands that the termination of this authorization does not relieve franchisee of its obligations to make payments to payee. payee may assign its rights and obligations under this eft authorization to payee affiliates or agents. payee may change its designated affiliates or agents at payee discretion. signature date note franchisee must attach voided or completed check relating to the bank account. attach voided or completed check here electronic funds transfer eft authorization exhibit to the franchise disclosure document participation agreement cold stone creamery gift card enrollment packet kahala franchising. all rights reserved section forms gift card participation agreement participation agreement this participation agreement dated this participation agreement is between valuelink llc valuelink and please type or legibly write legal entity name of the store here through please type or legibly write name of principal of the legal entity of the store here its principal participating franchisee which owns and operates cold stone creamery store number please type or please type or legibly write street address city state zip here designated location. unless otherwise indicated herein party or parties refer to valuelink and or participating franchisee. affiliated processor refers to valuelink affiliate western union financial services incorporated designated location is a cold stone restaurant owned and operated by participating franchisee. recitals whereas cold stone creamery incorporated client and valuelink entered into that certain agreement dated july the agreement pursuant to which client operates a stored value card program client program or the program and valuelink provides to client data processing and related services for the program whereas participating franchisee a franchisee of client desires to participate in the program and client has approved participating franchisee to participate in the program and whereas participating franchisee will engage valuelink to provide and valuelink has agreed to provide to participating franchisee the services as defined below for the program in accordance with the terms of this participation agreement. now therefore in consideration of the foregoing premises and the mutual representations covenants and agreements contained in this participation agreement and for other good and valuable consideration the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged the parties agree as follows agreement. valuelink responsibilities. valuelink will provide these services the services a database reports. valuelink will maintain a database of card data. card data is the transaction record and current value of each card recorded in the database. the database is the information repository software owned and operated by valuelink or its suppliers. authorization. valuelink will respond to authorization requests and process card transactions received at valuelink data processing center in valuelink designated format authorization. valuelink will reduce the card balance by the amount authorized. participating franchisee will obtain payment from the cardholder for any deficiency between the purchase price and legibly write store number located at cold stone creamery gift card enrollment packet kahala franchising. all rights reserved the amount authorized. cardholder means any person possessing or using a card or card number. authorizations will be provided in a real time or batch environment as mutually agreed. authorizations will be based on the available balance recorded in the database. valuelink is not responsible for determining whether transactions are fraudulent improper or otherwise unauthorized. ivr help desk. valuelink will operate an ivr hours per day days per week within the service level standards set forth in the agreement and which service level standards will be provided by client to participating franchisee upon request for the processing of mutually agreed transactions. valuelink will also staff a help desk hours per day days per week christmas day excluded for the processing of mutually agreed transactions. ivr means an automated interactive voice response system accessible from the. and canada through a toll free telephone number. settlement. valuelink will through affiliated processor provide certain settlement services to client and participating franchisee the ach settlement services through debits and credits to the franchisee account as defined below and the designated accounts of client the merchant account for the net value of card transactions. participating franchisee must provide client with an ach authorization form and by executing this participation agreement hereby confirms its authorization of client and its service providers including valuelink and affiliated processor acting on behalf of client to initiate debit and credit entries to the franchisee account as necessary or appropriate to effect any card transaction and all adjustments and corrections thereto and as necessary or appropriate to effect any other transfer contemplated by this participation agreement. participating franchisee shall comply with and be bound by any applicable law and the rules and regulations of the national automated clearing house association as in effect from time to time. participating franchisee hereby i in the event that any debit to the deposit account is returned for any reason participating franchisee authorizes client and its service providers including valuelink and affiliated processor acting on behalf of client to initiate a debit to the account for the original debit amount plus any associated returned item fees and ii. agrees acknowledges and covenants with valuelink that participating franchisee will keep its banking information current and updated at all times with client valuelink can and will rely on any such banking information received by valuelink from client and valuelink or any service providers including affiliated processor will not incur or have any liability for any ach debit and or credit entries that are made pursuant to client instructions and the banking information on file with client and valuelink except to the extent related directly to valuelink or affiliated processor gross negligence or willful misconduct in carrying out any ach debit and or credit entries made pursuant to client instructions and the banking information on file with client and valuelink. license. valuelink may provide or permit participating franchisee to access computer software enhancements thereto and updates new releases and copies thereof software. all right title and interest in and to all software will remain in valuelink or its suppliers and no title is transferred to participating franchisee. valuelink grants to participating franchisee and participating franchisee accepts the nonexclusive nontransferable right during the term of this participation agreement to use the software solely to perform its obligations. participating franchisee will not copy modify distribute display sublicense rent reverse engineer decompile create derivative works of or disassemble the software nor will participating franchisee allow anyone else to do so except to the extent permitted by applicable law. participating franchisee acknowledges that the software is proprietary and confidential information of valuelink. participating franchisee will not alter remove modify or suppression any notices in the software. cold stone creamery gift card enrollment packet kahala franchising. all rights reserved. participating franchisee responsibilities. a card production. participating franchisee will obtain all cards for the program from client. card is a client issued plastic card with a magnetic stripe that accesses card data. participating franchisee acknowledges that client is responsible for the control and distribution of cards to participating franchisee under the program. franchisee account. participating franchisee shall establish and maintain a deposit account the franchisee account at an insured depository institution the depository for the settlement of card transactions and other transactions as authorized from time to time in the program procedures as defined below and collectively referred to as card transactions. distribution card authorization equipment. participating franchisee will actively promote the program. participating franchisee will request an authorization in advance of each transaction. participating franchisee will provide and maintain i all pos devices telecommunications facilities and other equipment collectively card authorization equipment required for participating franchisee to electronically transmit card transaction data from designated locations to valuelink and ii any development programming or other modifications to the card authorization equipment as necessary to access and use services and service modifications. pos is a point of sale terminal device or system certified to valuelink specifications. the parties will test the card authorization equipment for functionality prior to program launch. program procedures. the processes and procedures by which participating franchisee sells cards and enables use of cards at designated locations are also part of the program and participating franchisee shall be solely responsible that such processes and procedures comply with the program procedures as defined below. client is solely responsible for defining and implementing those processes and procedures including those relating to the sale of cards service fees if any card redemption merchandise returns or refunds and cardholder dispute resolution collectively program procedures. participating franchisee understands that valuelink has no obligation to process any transaction for any card other than cards supported under the program. cardholder fees. fees assessed to cardholders in connection with cards including any transaction maintenance or inactivity fees shall be as established by client. participating franchisee shall not assess any fee or surcharge for purchase use activation or any other transaction in respect of a card unless otherwise defined in the program procedures. term. the term begins when the participation agreement is signed by the parties and continues for so long as the agreement is in effect provided however that to the extent valuelink is required to provide commercially reasonable support services following a termination of the agreement the provisions of this participation agreement shall remain in effect but only to the extent necessary for valuelink to perform such services and for participating franchisee to fulfill its obligations in connection with such services. termination for cause. a either party has the right to terminate this participation agreement immediately in the event that the other party is guilty of a material breach of this participation agreement and such breach remains uncured thirty days following receipt of notice thereof. cold stone creamery gift card enrollment packet kahala franchising. all rights reserved. valuelink may terminate this participation agreement upon notice to participating franchisee i if participating franchisee or the program causes valuelink to violate any law or regulation and participating franchisee or client fails to cure the condition causing such violation within ten business days after notice ii if participating franchisee fails to pay any amount due within ten days after receipt of notice iii if valuelink determines in its sole discretion that a material adverse change has occurred in the financial condition of participating franchisee iv in whole or in part in one or more jurisdictions if the ach settlement services cause valuelink or its affiliated processor to violate any law or regulation and participating franchisee or client fails to cure the condition causing such violation within ten business days after notice if valuelink is informed that participating franchisee no longer operates as a franchisee of client or virgin islands if client instructs valuelink in writing to immediately terminate the participation agreement. valuelink obligation to provide the services will be suspended during the cure periods referenced in clauses i and iv. either party may also terminate this participation agreement immediately in the event that the other party shall go into liquidation suffer the appointment of a receivership of its assets go into bankruptcy voluntarily or involuntarily or otherwise take advantage of any insolvency laws or upon any involuntary sale transfer or other disposition of substantially all of the assets of the other party. termination of agreement. termination or expiration of the agreement results in immediate termination of this participation agreement with no notice required. termination of franchise agreement. termination or expiration of participating franchisee franchisee agreement with client franchise agreement results in immediate termination of this participation agreement with respect to the designated locations covered by the terminated or expired franchise agreement with no notice required. exclusivity. during the agreement term i valuelink will be the sole and exclusive provider of the services to participating franchisee and ii participating franchisee will not directly or indirectly offer or promote any other proprietary closed network online gift card program. confidentiality. confidential information includes this participation agreement and any information obtained by one party recipient regarding the other party discloser or their respective businesses including all confidential or proprietary concepts software documentation reports data specifications card data computer software source code object code flow charts databases inventions know how show how and trade secrets whether or not patentable or copyrightable. confidential information will not include information that i is or becomes in the public domain through no fault of recipient ii was received from a third party free of any obligation of confidence to recipient knowledge iii was in recipient possession prior to receipt from discloser iv is required to be disclosed by law regulation or court order after giving discloser as much advance notice as practical or is independently developed by recipient employees consultants or agents without use of or reference to the discloser confidential information. participation agreement will be used by recipient only to exercise its rights and to perform its obligations under this participation agreement. recipient will use reasonable care to safeguard confidential information. recipient will return or destroy confidential information within a reasonable period after request except that valuelink may retain card data subject to this section to comply with any legal or regulatory requirements or any potential audit requests or requirements. breach of the restrictions on use or disclosure of confidential information will result in immediate and irreparable harm to discloser and money damages will be inadequate to compensate for that harm. discloser will be entitled to equitable relief in addition to all other available remedies to redress any breach. except as expressly provided herein no license is granted to recipient under any discloser patent trademark copyright trade secret or other proprietary right. cold stone creamery gift card enrollment packet kahala franchising. all rights reserved. indemnification. a general. subject to the limitations set forth in sections a through each party will indemnify the other its affiliates and their respective directors officers employees and agents from and against any and all third party claims losses liabilities and damages including reasonable attorneys fees and costs of settlement resulting from or arising out of its failure to comply with this participation agreement. participation franchisee further agrees to indemnify valuelink its directors officers employees and agents from and against any and all third party claims losses liabilities and damages including reasonable attorneys fees and costs of settlement resulting from or arising out of valuelink compliance with participation franchisee instructions orders or specifications. affiliate means with respect to either party any entity controlling controlled by or under common control with such party. intellectual property. valuelink agrees to indemnify participating franchisee its directors officers employees and agents from and against all third party claims losses liabilities and damages including reasonable attorneys fees and costs of settlement resulting from or arising out of any allegation that valuelink software misappropriate or infringe such third party. copyright trademark patent or other intellectual property right except to the extent that such allegation arises from i participating franchisee use of software other than in compliance with this agreement and any documentation supplied by valuelink ii participating franchisee use of software in combination with other software equipment systems services processes components or elements not provided by valuelink if the infringement or misappropriation would not have occurred but for such use or combination or iii modifications or development requested by client or participating franchisee using designs instructions or specifications provided or approved by client or participating franchisee. participating franchisee agrees to indemnify valuelink its directors officers employees and agents from and against all third party claims losses liabilities and damages including reasonable attorneys fees and costs of settlement resulting from or arising out of any allegation that materials supplied by client or participating franchisee including trademarks artwork designs and specifications misappropriate or infringe such third party. copyright trademark patent or other intellectual property right except to the extent that such allegation arises from valuelink use of such materials other than in compliance with a this agreement or any relevant instructions supplied by client or participating franchisee. limitation of liability disclaimer of warranties. a limitation. except for section. above valuelink and its suppliers and affiliated processor cumulative aggregate liability to client and participating franchisee and all other participating franchisees under the agreement and this participation agreement and all participation agreements will be limited to actual direct damages and in any event will not i exceed. or ii include any liability for claims arising out of or relating to the cards issued to participating franchisees from client. for example if client and two additional participating franchisees participate in the program valuelink cumulative aggregate liability to client and such participating franchisees for actual direct damages will not exceed three hundred thousand dollars. and will not include any liability for claims arising out of or relating to services and or items supplied by client or third parties. exclusion. in no event will any party to this participation agreement their affiliates or any of their respective officers directors employees or agents be liable for lost profits lost business opportunities lost revenues exemplary punitive special incidental indirect or consequential damages or the like each of which is hereby excluded by agreement of the parties regardless of whether such damages were foreseeable or whether party has been advised of the possibility thereof. cold stone creamery gift card enrollment packet kahala franchising. all rights reserved. disclaimer. this is service agreement. except as expressly provided herein valuelink disclaims all representations and warranties express or implied including any warranties of quality suitability merchantability fitness for particular purpose or noninfringement. time limitation. participating franchisee may not assert any cause of action against valuelink under this participation agreement that was or reasonably should have been discovered by participating franchisee more than one year prior to the filing of a suit or the commencement of arbitration proceedings alleging such cause of action. compliance with law. participating franchisee will comply with all laws and regulations applicable to its business. pre condition to liability. prior to bringing any claim against valuelink under this participation agreement participating franchisee shall provide client with written notice detailing the claim notice of claim and client shall have the right to pursue such claim on participating franchisee behalf by providing participating franchisee with written notice of the same within ten business days after receiving the notice of claim. if client elects to pursue such claim on participating franchisee behalf participating franchisee may participate in the claim with client at participating franchisee election. any resolution of a claim brought by client on participating franchisee behalf shall be binding on participating franchisee. if client elects not to pursue such claim on participating franchisee behalf participating franchisee may pursue such claim on its own behalf. miscellaneous. a notices. notices will be effective upon receipt if they are received in writing by registered or certified mail postage prepaid return receipt requested or by overnight delivery to the president of the other party at its address set forth below. notices to valuelink must also be sent to valuelink general counsel at south quebec street greenwood village colorado to be effective. independent contractor third party beneficiaries. the parties are independent contractors. neither party shall have any authority to bind the other. this participation agreement is entered into solely for the benefit of valuelink and participating franchisee and will not confer any rights upon any person not expressly a party to this participation agreement including cardholders. valuelink may subcontract with others to provide services. complete agreement. this participation agreement is the complete and exclusive understanding of the parties with respect to its subject matter. except as expressly provided herein no modification or waiver of this participation agreement will be valid unless in writing signed by each party. party waiver of a breach of any term will not be a waiver. cold stone creamery gift card enrollment packet kahala franchising. all rights reserved assignment. participating franchisee may not assign its rights or delegate its obligations under this participation agreement without valuelink prior written consent. governing law arbitration. the laws of the state of delaware excluding its rules on conflicts of laws will govern this participation agreement. subject to section all disputes will be submitted to the american arbitration association the aaa for resolution before a panel consisting of three arbitrators one of which will be selected by participating franchisee one by valuelink and the third selected by mutual agreement of the first two. arbitration will be conducted in accordance with the commercial arbitration rules of the aaa then in effect. the decision of the arbitrators will be binding upon the parties except that disputes arising out of section will not be subject to arbitration and may be brought to a court for judicial resolution. judgment upon any arbitration award or decision may be entered in any court having jurisdiction. arbitration will be held in denver colorado. each party will pay its own arbitration expenses and one half of the fee of the arbitrators and the administrative fee of the aaa. the colorado rules of evidence will apply to such arbitration. the arbitrators will be required to render a decision based on the terms of this participation agreement and applicable law. remainder of page intentionally left blank signature page immediately follows cold stone creamery gift card enrollment packet kahala franchising. all rights reserved in witness whereof each of the parties have caused this participation agreement to be executed by their authorized representatives as of the date first set forth above. authorization and agreement participating franchisee name of legal entity of the store valuelink llc signature signature print name print name title title street address city state and zip south quebec street greenwood village colorado phone number facsimile mail company taxpayer idaho date note to participating franchisee please complete all shaded areas of the participation agreement cold stone creamery gift card enrollment packet kahala franchising. all rights reserved section forms eft authorization form franchisee information franchisee name store number franchisee phone number franchisee mailing address street city state zip contact name address and phone number if different than above employer identification number if applicable principal name and social security number bank account information bank name bank account number bank routing number characters bank mailing address street city state zip bank phone number payment authorization franchisee hereby authorizes kahala franchising. its affiliates or agents payee to initiate withdrawals from the bank account indicated on this form and hereby authorizes the bank to honor and debit the bank account for electronic funds transfers or drafts drawn on the bank account and payable to payee. the amount of such charge shall be set forth in a notice from the payee presented to the bank on the day of the week set forth in franchisee franchise agreement promissory note and security agreement gift card participation agreement or similar agreement for the gift card program and any other agreement franchisee signs that authorizes payee its affiliate or agent to debit franchisee account for the fees which may be modified by kahala franchising. its affiliates or agents for the payment of royalty fees advertising fees pos support fees gift card and gifting program fees and funds flow and any other fees charges and other amounts payable to payee its affiliates or agents for any services payee its affiliates or agents provide or facilitate. franchisee agrees to execute such additional documents as may be reasonably requested by payee or the bank to evidence the interest of this eft authorization. this authority shall remain in full force and effect until payee has received written notification from franchisee in such time and manner as to afford payee and the bank to act on such notice. franchisee understands that the termination of this authorization does not relieve franchisee of its obligations to make payments to payee. payee may assign its rights and obligations under this eft authorization to payee affiliates or agents. payee may change its designated affiliates or agents at payee discretion. signature date note franchisee must attach voided or completed check relating to the bank account. attach voided or completed check here store document exhibit to the franchise disclosure document general release for renewal of franchise agreement store document of general release for renewal of franchise agreement general release a franchisee and each of its current past and future predecessors successors and assigns and each of its and the foregoing entities respective parents subsidiaries shareholders members managers owners partners directors officers employees representatives agents successors assigns guarantors insurers spouses heirs executors trustees and estates if any of any and all such entities collectively with franchisee franchisee parties hereby irrevocably and unconditionally release remise and forever discharge kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company franchisor and each of its current past and future predecessors successors and assigns and of its and the foregoing entities respective parents subsidiaries shareholders members managers owners partners directors officers employees representatives agents successors assigns guarantors insurers spouses heirs executors trustees and estates if any of any and all such entities collectively with franchisor franchisor parties from any and all claims demands causes of action suits debts duties accounts covenants contracts agreements promises damages judgments taxes liabilities and obligations both contingent and fixed known and unknown now existing or hereafter of every kind and nature whatsoever in law or equity or otherwise under local state or federal law including without limitation the americans with disabilities act ada or the law of any other applicable jurisdiction that any of the franchisee parties have against any of the franchisor parties including without limitation those arising from in connection with or relating to i the franchise agreement dated including any amendments or modifications thereto for cold stone creamery store number store ii the operation leasing or subleasing of the store and iii the offering and sale of the franchise for the store arising from an act omission conduct or activity occurring before and including the date hereof. it is understood by franchisee that if the facts or law with respect to the foregoing release hereafter turn out to be different from the facts or law known to be or believed by franchisee to be true at the time of the date hereof then franchisee expressly assumes the risk of the facts or law turning out to be so different and agrees that the foregoing release shall be in all respects effective and not subject to termination or rescission in whole or in part based upon such differences. signature page follows store document of dated franchisee a by name title state of saints county of on the day of before me the undersigned a notary public in and for said state personally appeared personally known to me or who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person whose name is are subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he she they executed the same in his her their authorized capacity ies and that by his her their signature on the instrument the person or the entity upon behalf of which the person acted executed the instrument. certify under penalty of perjury under the laws of the state of that the foregoing paragraph is true and correct. witness my hand and official seal. notary public signature print name my commission expires notary public seal store document exhibit to the franchise disclosure document consent to transfer and release agreement without sublease store document of consent to transfer and release agreement store city state this consent to transfer and release agreement agreement is entered into on effective date by and between a assignor and a assignee and kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company as ultimate assignee of franchisor. all capitalized terms not defined expressly in this agreement shall have the meaning assigned to such terms in the franchise agreement as defined in recital. below. recitals. franchisor and assignor are parties to a franchise agreement dated as amended collectively the franchise agreement for the cold stone creamery restaurant located at store. the brand franchise located at the address listed in the foregoing sentence will hereinafter be referred to as the franchised business. assignor desires to assign the franchised business to assignee and assignee desires to accept the assignment. assignor and assignee hereby represent and warrant to franchisor that the assignment of the franchised business is supported by a purchase agreement entered into by assignor and assignee and hereby agree that consistent with their indemnification obligations provided for below they have sole responsibility for any disputes related to the accuracy and content of such purchase agreement. for change in ownership interest that is not transfer assignor hereby agrees that assignor is the responsible franchisee under the franchise agreement from until the date immediately preceding the effective date. assignee hereby agrees that assignee is the responsible franchisee under the franchise agreement as of and after the effective date and continuing through the term of the franchise agreement as amended by the first amendment to franchise agreement. for full transfer and assignee enters into new fa assignee and assignor each acknowledges that upon assignment assignee must execute franchisor current form of franchise agreement which includes its current royalty fees and advertising contributions that may be greater than the amount of such corresponding fees in assignor franchise agreement. the franchise agreement shall be deemed expired as of and after the effective date of assignee current form of franchise agreement executed concurrently with this agreement. or for change in ownership interest that is not transfer assignee acknowledges receipt of a copy of the franchise agreement from assignor. franchisor agrees to consent to the assignment of the franchised business from assignor to assignee subject to the terms and conditions of this agreement. now therefore in consideration of the mutual promises covenants conditions and terms contained in this agreement the parties agree as follows agreement. the foregoing recitals are hereby incorporated in and made a part of this agreement. store document of. pursuant to the terms and conditions of the franchise agreement assignor requested franchisor prior written consent to assign the franchised business for change in ownership interest that is not transfer and franchise agreement from assignor to assignee. franchisor hereby consents to the transfer of the franchised business for change in ownership interest that is not transfer and franchise agreement to assignee subject to the terms and conditions of this agreement being fully met by both assignor and assignee. assignor agrees to transfer the franchised business for change in ownership interest that is not transfer and franchise agreement to assignee pursuant to the transfer provisions in assignor franchise agreement and assignee accepts the transfer of the franchised business pursuant to the transfer provisions in assignor franchise agreement including but not limited to the payment of the applicable transfer fees. for change in ownership interest that is not transfer assignor and assignee agree that pursuant to the terms of the franchise agreement assignee is required to execute franchisor then current form of franchise agreement and all exhibits attached thereto prior to the closing of the transfer of the franchised business. franchisor hereby waives assignee obligation to execute franchisor then current form of franchise agreement and all exhibits attached thereto as required by the terms of the franchise agreement for this transfer only. assignor hereby acknowledges and agrees that franchisor waiver of assignor obligations under the terms of the franchise agreement is not a permanent waiver and that franchisor its assigns and their respective affiliates hereby reserve the right to require assignor assignee or their respective affiliates authorized assignees or principals to sign franchisor then current form of franchise agreement and all exhibits attached thereto in connection with other transfers that may be requested by and between the parties. subject to section below assignor hereby agrees to continue to be bound by the terms and conditions set forth in the franchise agreement until the date immediately preceding the effective date. for full transfer and assignee enters into new fa assignee hereby agrees to execute franchisor current form of franchise agreement with franchisor and to be bound by the terms and conditions set forth in the current form of franchise agreement. or for change in ownership interest that is not transfer assignee hereby agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions set forth in the franchise agreement. use when buyer is paying the transfer franchise fee pursuant to the terms of the franchise agreement franchisor is owed a transfer franchise fee in the amount of thousand hundred and dollars xx x assignor assignee and franchisor hereby agree that the transfer franchise fee will be paid by assignee to franchisor contemporaneous with the execution of this agreement on behalf of assignor. assignor shall be liable to franchisor for the transfer franchise fee if assignee fails to pay the transfer franchise fee in full. or use when seller is paying the transfer franchise fee pursuant to the terms of the franchise agreement franchisor is owed contemporaneous with the execution of this agreement a transfer franchise fee in the amount of thousand hundred and dollars xx x use if buyer is paying the transfer training fee pursuant to the terms of the franchise agreement franchisor is owed a transfer training fee in the amount of thousand hundred and dollars x assignor assignee and franchisor store document of hereby agree that the transfer training fee will be paid by assignee to franchisor contemporaneous with the execution of this agreement on behalf of assignor. assignor shall be liable to franchisor for the transfer training fee if assignee fails to pay the transfer training fee in full. or use if seller is paying the transfer training fee pursuant to the terms of the franchise agreement franchisor is owed contemporaneous with the execution of this agreement a transfer training fee in the amount of thousand hundred and dollars x assignor agrees to cure any and all monetary defaults due and payable under their phone service agreement complete and sign a letter of agency letter of authorization or equivalent form and provide the form to assignee at least one week prior to the transfer of the franchised business to allow assignee to retain the telephone number of the franchised business. assignee agrees to provide the letter of agency letter of authorization or equivalent form to their phone service provider in an effort to retain the telephone number of the franchised business. assignor agrees to cure any and all defaults and or debts of any monetary consideration due and payable to franchisor or its affiliates prior to the execution of this agreement including without limitation any past due and current royalties and advertising contributions under the franchise agreement through the date immediately preceding the effective date along with any accruing interest late fees or other penalties as allowed under the franchise agreement and or applicable law. notwithstanding the foregoing in the event assignor fails to cure any and all defaults and or fully satisfy any debts as required franchisor has the sole and absolute discretion to move forward with the transfer as contemplated by this agreement but without waiving any amounts due and owing to franchisor and or its affiliates and reserves all rights to pursue such defaults and debts and charges against assignor at a later time. assignor represents and warrants that it has not failed to disclose to franchisor any information which if known by franchisor might provide grounds for franchisor to reasonably withhold its consent to this agreement and that assignor has disclosed all of the terms of the transfer to franchisor. assignor ratifies and reaffirms any and all provisions and or agreements with franchisor intended to survive the assignment and or termination of the franchise agreement and agrees to remain bound by them including but not limited to any provisions pertaining to confidential information and covenant against competition. assignor agrees that it has no rights in any of the trademarks trade names or service marks of franchisor except in connection with other cold stone creamery franchises owned by assignor if any. assignor also stipulates that such trademarks trade names service marks and the like are the sole property of franchisor and that assignor has no rights in them except as authorized by franchisor in connection with other cold stone creamery franchises owned by assignor if any. assignor quitclaims to franchisor any rights in any trademarks trade names and service marks of franchisor in the event assignor has any such rights except those rights acquired through other cold stone creamery franchises authorized by franchisor and owned by assignor if any. assignee acknowledges that franchisor has not made any express or implied verbal or written representations or promises whatsoever that a future assignments will be approved store document of. assignee will have financial success operating the franchised business. the consideration if any paid for the franchised business represents the true value of the franchised business or. assignor is not in default under the terms of the franchise agreement. assignee acknowledges that franchisor has made no representations whatsoever concerning the value of the franchised business. all notices required or permitted under this agreement shall be in writing and shall be delivered by personal delivery courier such as fedex or ups or by. mail sent certified or registered mail return receipt requested to the address set forth below which address may be amended from time to time pursuant to the terms of this section. notices provided under this section shall be deemed received upon personal delivery or delivery by courier and within three days after deposit in the. mail. you have an obligation to promptly notify us pursuant to this section whenever your mailing address phone number or facsimile number change. notices shall be provided to the parties at the address specified below if to assignee name attn address city state zip telephone number facsimile number if to assignor name attn address city state zip telephone number facsimile number if to franchisor kahala franchising. attn legal department via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona telephone number facsimile number. franchisor hereby consents to the transfer of the franchised business to assignee subject to the terms and conditions of this agreement being fully met by both assignor and assignee. assignor and assignee understand the effective date is the closing date indicated on the escrow statement closing statement. in consideration of franchisor agreements set forth in this agreement assignor represents that franchisor has not failed to perform and is not in any respect in default in the performance of any of its obligations under the franchise agreement and assignor and each of its current past and future predecessors successors and assigns and each store document of of its and the foregoing entities respective parents subsidiaries shareholders members managers owners partners directors officers employees representatives agents successors assigns guarantors insurers spouses heirs executors trustees and estates if any of any and all such entities collectively with assignor assignor affiliates hereby irrevocably and unconditionally release remise and forever discharge franchisor and each of its current past and future predecessors successors and assigns and each of its and the foregoing entities respective parents subsidiaries shareholders members managers owners partners directors officers employees representatives agents successors assigns guarantors insurers spouses heirs executors trustees and estates if any of any and all such entities collectively with franchisor franchisor affiliates from any and all claims demands causes of action suits debts duties accounts covenants contracts agreements promises damages judgments taxes liabilities and obligations both contingent and fixed known and unknown now existing or hereafter of every kind and nature whatsoever in law or equity or otherwise under local state or federal law or the law of any other applicable jurisdiction that any of the assignor affiliates have against any of the franchisor affiliates including without limitation those arising from in connection with or relating to the franchisee agreement including any amendments or modifications thereto ii the operation of the franchised business including any leasing or subleasing related thereto and iii the offering and sale of the franchised business arising from an act omission conduct or activity occurring before and including the effective date. it is understood by assignor that if the facts or law with respect to the foregoing release hereafter turn out to be different from the facts or law known to be or believed by assignor to be true at the time of the date hereof then assignor expressly assumes the risk of the facts or law turning out to be so different and agrees that the foregoing release shall be in all respects effective and not subject to termination or rescission in whole or in part based upon such differences. assignor and assignee hereby agree to protect defend and indemnify each of the franchisor affiliates and hold them harmless from and against any and all costs and expenses actually incurred by them or for which they are liable including without limitation attorney fees court costs expert witness fees and costs losses liabilities damages claims and demands of every kind or nature and including those incurred pursuant to a settlement entered into in good faith arising out of or in connection with the franchised business including specifically without limitation any claim or controversy arising out of i this agreement ii the franchise agreement iii any transfer of the franchised business by assignee or assignor iv acts or omissions of assignee and or assignor which are not in strict compliance with this agreement the franchise agreement and or the operations manual in respect of use or display of the proprietary marks or acts or omissions of assignee and or assignor which tend to create an impression that the relationship between the parties hereto is other than one of franchisor and franchisee. franchisor affiliates at their sole discretion may hire legal counsel to defend any actions brought against any franchisor affiliates which arise out of assignor obligations under all agreements entered into between assignor and any of the franchisor affiliates including without limitation this agreement and assignee obligations herein. assignor and assignee hereby agree to pay any and all attorneys fees expert costs and any other fees and costs incurred by franchisor affiliates to said selected counsel upon the request of franchisor affiliates. assignor and assignee will if requested by any franchisor affiliates defend store document of any suits at the sole cost and expense of assignor and assignee. assignor and assignee hereby agree to defend said suits with the use of attorneys requested by franchisor affiliates. for purposes of this provision requests shall be made pursuant to the notice provisions set forth in this agreement. notwithstanding the other provisions of this section to the contrary if any except as otherwise specified in this agreement assignor shall not be responsible for any of the acts or omissions of assignee after the effective date. assignor agrees for itself and its successors and assigns that it will not disparage denigrate or defame the franchisor affiliates or any of their business dealings financial condition pending litigation and arbitrations officers directors employees agents representatives or attorneys either publicly or privately by any means whatsoever including electronic means collectively non disparagement provision. in the event such a communication is made to anyone including but not limited to third party legal counsel adverse to franchisor affiliates in any fashion former employees of franchisor affiliates former shareholders of franchisor affiliates current or former vendors franchisees licensees or area representatives of franchisor affiliates quick service restaurant brands media government agencies public interest groups and publishing companies it will be considered a material breach of the terms of this agreement and franchisor affiliates shall be entitled to bring a legal action for appropriate equitable relief as well as damages. in addition to any other rights or remedies available at law in equity or by statute assignor consents to the specific enforcement of this non disparagement provision through an injunction or restraining order issued by an appropriate court without the requirement of posting a bond. notwithstanding the above nothing in this provision shall prevent or prohibit assignor from testifying in any legal proceeding including a deposition hearing or trial from cooperating in good faith in any governmental investigation or action or from making any report required by law. each individual executing this agreement on behalf of a partnership limited liability company or corporation represents and warrants that he or she is duly authorized to execute and deliver this agreement on behalf of the partnership limited liability company or corporation and agrees to deliver evidence of his or her authority to franchisor upon request by franchisor. the provisions of this agreement are severable and if any one or more provisions may be determined to be unenforceable in whole or in part the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable. if the provision found to be unenforceable was material to this agreement the parties agree to promptly negotiate the terms of a substitute provision to replace the severed provision consistent with the then current law and the parties original intent. this agreement shall be construed under and according to the laws of the state of arizona without regard to conflict of laws principles. any and all court proceedings arising from this agreement shall be brought in and only in court of competent jurisdiction located in maricopa county arizona. the parties consent to the exercise of subject matter and personal jurisdiction by such courts and hereby waive any objections or defense thereto. this agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. the signatures required for execution may be transmitted to the other party via facsimile or a scanned.pdf file sent via email and such signature shall be deemed a duplicate original shall be effective upon receipt by the other party may be admitted in evidence and shall fully bind the party and person making such signature store document of. no amendment addendum modification supplement or waiver of this agreement or any of its provisions shall be binding on the parties unless made in writing and duly executed by an authorized representative of franchisor and assignor and assignee. failure of any party to enforce at any time any of the provisions of this agreement or to require at any time performance by another party or any provision of this agreement shall in no way be construed as a continuing waiver of those provisions or of any other rights under this agreement. except as otherwise specified in this agreement this agreement shall not be construed in any way as modifying waiving or affecting any of the terms covenants conditions or agreements contained in the franchise agreement executed by assignor or the current form of franchise agreement to be executed by assignee. this agreement shall inure to the benefit of and shall be binding upon each of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. signature page follows store document of in witness whereof each party hereto has executed this agreement by and through its duly authorized representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind his or her respective party without further consent or approval of any kind as of the effective date of this agreement. assignor by name title by name title assignee by name title by name title franchisor kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company by name title store document exhibit to the franchise disclosure document consent to transfer and release agreement with sublease store document of consent to transfer and release agreement store city state this consent to transfer and release agreement agreement is entered into on effective date by and between a assignor and a assignee and kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company as ultimate assignee of franchisor and a sublessor franchisor and sublessor may collectively be referred to in this agreement as company. all capitalized terms not defined expressly in this agreement shall have the meaning assigned to such terms in the franchise agreement as defined in recital. below or the sublease as defined in recital. below. recitals. franchisor and assignor are parties to a franchise agreement dated as amended collectively the franchise agreement for the cold stone creamery restaurant located at store. the brand franchise located at the address listed in the foregoing sentence will hereinafter be referred to as the franchised business. sublessor and assignor are parties to a sublease agreement dated as amended collectively the sublease for the franchised business. assignor desires to assign the franchised business to assignee and assignee desires to accept the assignment. assignor and assignee hereby represent and warrant to company that the assignment of the franchised business is supported by a purchase agreement entered into by assignor and assignee and hereby agree that consistent with their indemnification obligations provided for below they have sole responsibility for any disputes related to the accuracy and content of such purchase agreement. for full transfer and assignee enters into new fa assignee acknowledges that upon assignment assignee must execute franchisor current form of franchise agreement which includes its current royalty fees and advertising contributions that may be greater than the amount of such corresponding fees in assignor franchise agreement. the franchise agreement shall be deemed expired as of and after the effective date of assignee current form of franchise agreement executed concurrently with this agreement. or for change in ownership interest that is not transfer assignee acknowledges receipt of a copy of the franchise agreement from assignor. for change in ownership interest that is not transfer assignor hereby agrees that assignor is the responsible franchisee under the franchise agreement from until the date immediately preceding the effective date. assignee hereby agrees that assignee is the responsible franchisee under the franchise agreement as of and after the effective date and continuing through the term of the franchise agreement as amended by the first amendment to franchise agreement. for full transfer and assignee enters into new sublease assignee acknowledges that upon assignment assignee must execute sublessor current form of sublease. the sublease shall be deemed expired as of and after the effective date of assignee current form of sublease executed concurrently with this agreement. store document of or for change in ownership interest that is not transfer assignee acknowledges receipt of a copy of the sublease from assignor together with all amendments supplements riders exhibits and revisions including a copy of the underlying master lease and fully understands and acknowledges the obligations under the sublease. for change in ownership interest that is not transfer assignor hereby agrees that assignor is the responsible sublessee under the sublease from until the date immediately preceding the effective date. assignee hereby agrees that assignee is the responsible sublessee under the sublease as of and after the effective date and continuing through the term of the sublease as amended by the first amendment to franchise sublease. franchisor agrees to consent to the assignment of the franchised business from assignor to assignee subject to the terms and conditions of this agreement. now therefore in consideration of the mutual promises covenants conditions and terms contained in this agreement the parties agree as follows agreement. the foregoing recitals are hereby incorporated in and made a part of this agreement. pursuant to the terms and conditions of the franchise agreement assignor requested franchisor prior written consent to assign the franchised business for change in ownership interest that is not transfer and franchise agreement from assignor to assignee. franchisor hereby consents to the transfer of the franchised business for change in ownership interest that is not transfer and franchise agreement to assignee subject to the terms and conditions of this agreement being fully met by both assignor and assignee. for change in ownership interest that is not transfer pursuant to the terms and conditions of the sublease assignor has requested sublessor prior written consent to assign the sublease from assignor to assignee. sublessor hereby consents to the transfer of the sublease to assignee subject to the terms and conditions of this agreement being fully met by both assignor and assignee. assignor agrees to transfer the franchised business for change in ownership interest that is not transfer and franchise agreement and sublease to assignee pursuant to the transfer provisions in assignor franchise agreement and assignee accepts the transfer of the franchised business for change in ownership interest that is not transfer and franchise agreement and sublease pursuant to the transfer provisions in assignor franchise agreement including but not limited to the payment of the applicable transfer fees. for change in ownership interest that is not transfer assignor and assignee agree that pursuant to the terms of the franchise agreement assignee is required to execute franchisor then current form of franchise agreement and all exhibits attached thereto prior to the closing of the transfer of the franchised business. franchisor hereby waives assignee obligation to execute franchisor then current form of franchise agreement and all exhibits attached thereto as required by the terms of the franchise agreement for this transfer only. assignor hereby acknowledges and agrees that franchisor waiver of assignor obligations under store document of the terms of the franchise agreement is not a permanent waiver and that franchisor its assigns and their respective affiliates hereby reserve the right to require assignor assignee or their respective affiliates authorized assignees or principals to sign franchisor then current form of franchise agreement and all exhibits attached thereto in connection with other transfers that may be requested by and between the parties. subject to section below assignor hereby agrees to continue to be bound by the terms and conditions set forth in the franchise agreement until the date immediately preceding the effective date. for full transfer and assignee enters into new fa assignee hereby agrees to execute franchisor current form of franchise agreement with franchisor and to be bound by the terms and conditions set forth in the current form of franchise agreement. or for change in ownership interest that is not transfer assignee hereby agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions set forth in the franchise agreement. use when buyer is paying the transfer franchise fee pursuant to the terms of the franchise agreement franchisor is owed a transfer franchise fee in the amount of thousand hundred and dollars xx x assignor assignee and franchisor hereby agree that the transfer franchise fee will be paid by assignee to franchisor contemporaneous with the execution of this agreement on behalf of assignor. assignor shall be liable to franchisor for the transfer franchise fee if assignee fails to pay the transfer franchise fee in full. or use when seller is paying the transfer franchise fee pursuant to the terms of the franchise agreement franchisor is owed contemporaneous with execution of this agreement a transfer franchise fee in the amount of thousand hundred and dollars xx x use if buyer is paying the transfer training fee pursuant to the terms of the franchise agreement franchisor is owed a transfer training fee in the amount of thousand hundred and dollars x assignor assignee and franchisor hereby agree that the transfer training fee will be paid by assignee to franchisor contemporaneous with the execution of this agreement on behalf of assignor. assignor shall be liable to franchisor for the transfer training fee if assignee fails to pay the transfer training fee in full. or use if seller is paying the transfer training fee pursuant to the terms of the franchise agreement franchisor is owed contemporaneous with the execution of this agreement a transfer training fee in the amount of thousand hundred and dollars x assignor agrees to the assignment of assignor interest in and to the lease security deposit if any currently held by the landlord to the assignee. subject to section below assignor hereby agrees to continue to be bound by the terms and conditions set forth in the sublease through the date immediately preceding the effective date. store document of. if assignee is signing new sublease assignee hereby agrees to execute sublessor current form of sublease and to be bound by the terms and conditions set forth in the current form of sublease. or if assignee is not signing new sublease assignee hereby agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions set forth in the sublease. assignor agrees to cure any and all monetary defaults due and payable under their phone service agreement complete and sign a letter of agency letter of authorization or equivalent form and provide the form to assignee at least one week prior to the transfer of the franchised business to allow assignee to retain the telephone number of the franchised business. assignee agrees to provide the letter of agency letter of authorization or equivalent form to their phone service provider in an effort to retain the telephone number of the franchised business. assignor agrees to cure any and all defaults and or debts of any monetary consideration due and payable to franchisor or its affiliates prior to the execution of this agreement including without limitation any past due and current royalties and advertising contributions under the franchise agreement through the date immediately preceding the effective date and any rental and other occupancy charges under the sublease through the date immediately preceding the effective date along with any accruing interest late fees or other penalties as allowed under the franchise agreement sublease and or applicable law. notwithstanding the foregoing in the event assignor fails to cure any and all defaults fully satisfy any debts and or pay any charges as required franchisor has the sole and absolute discretion to move forward with the transfer as contemplated by this agreement but without waiving any amounts due and owing to franchisor and or its affiliates and reserves all rights to pursue such defaults debts and charges against assignor at a later time. assignor and assignee hereby understand and agree that there may be additional charges and or credits under the lease and or sublease for rent including without limitation common area and maintenance charges reconciliations insurance and or taxes related to the franchised business. assignor and assignee further hereby agree that assignee shall be entitled to receive the credits and or pay the actual charges incurred to the landlord or sublessor as directed by sublessor within ten days from receipt of sublessor notice of such charges and or credits to assignee. assignor and assignee hereby represent and warrant to sublessor that assignor and assignee have taken such actions as necessary to account for such charges and or credits in the purchase price for the franchised business. assignor represents and warrants that it has not failed to disclose to company any information which if known by company might provide grounds for company to reasonably withhold its consent to this agreement and that assignor has disclosed all of the terms of the transfer to company. assignor ratifies and reaffirms any and all provisions and or agreements with company intended to survive the assignment and or termination of the franchise agreement and sublease and agrees to remain bound by them including but not limited to any provisions pertaining to confidential information and covenant against competition. assignor agrees that it has no rights in any of the trademarks trade names or service marks of franchisor except in connection with other cold stone creamery franchises owned by assignor if any. assignor also stipulates that such trademarks trade names service marks and the like are the sole property of franchisor and that assignor has no rights in them except as authorized by franchisor in connection with other cold stone creamery franchises store document of owned by assignor if any. assignor quitclaims to franchisor any rights in any trademarks trade names and service marks of franchisor in the event assignor has any such rights except those rights acquired through other cold stone creamery franchises authorized by franchisor and owned by assignor if any. assignee acknowledges that company has not made any express or implied verbal or written representations or promises whatsoever that a future assignments will be approved. assignee will have financial success operating the franchised business. the landlord will grant an extension of the master lease where the franchised business is located and operates. the consideration if any paid for the franchised business represents the true value of the franchised business or. assignor is not in default under the terms of the franchise agreement and or the sublease. assignee acknowledges that company has made no representations whatsoever concerning the value of the franchised business. all notices required or permitted under this agreement shall be in writing and shall be delivered by personal delivery courier such as fedex or ups or by. mail sent certified or registered mail return receipt requested to the address set forth below which address may be amended from time to time pursuant to the terms of this section. notices provided under this section shall be deemed received upon personal delivery or delivery by courier and within three days after deposit in the. mail. you have an obligation to promptly notify us pursuant to this section whenever your mailing address phone number or facsimile number change. notices shall be provided to the parties at the address specified below if to assignee name attn address city state zip telephone number facsimile number if to assignor name attn address city state zip telephone number facsimile number store document of if to franchisor kahala franchising. attn legal department via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona telephone number facsimile number if to sublessor name of sublessor attn real estate department via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona telephone number facsimile number. franchisor hereby consents to the transfer of the franchised business to assignee subject to the terms and conditions of this agreement being fully met by both assignor and assignee. assignor and assignee understand the effective date is the closing date indicated on the escrow statement closing statement. in consideration of company agreements set forth in this agreement assignor represents that company has not failed to perform and is not in any respect in default in the performance of any of its obligations under the sublease and or the franchise agreement and assignor and each of its current past and future predecessors successors and assigns and each of its and the foregoing entities respective parents subsidiaries shareholders members managers owners partners directors officers employees representatives agents successors assigns guarantors insurers spouses heirs executors trustees and estates if any of any and all such entities collectively with assignor assignor affiliates hereby irrevocably and unconditionally release remise and forever discharge company and each its current past and future predecessors successors and assigns and each of its and the foregoing entities respective parents subsidiaries shareholders members managers owners partners directors officers employees representatives agents successors assigns guarantors insurers spouses heirs executors trustees and estates if any of any and all such entities collectively with company franchisor affiliates from any and all claims demands causes of action suits debts duties accounts covenants contracts agreements promises damages judgments taxes liabilities and obligations both contingent and fixed known and unknown now existing or hereafter of every kind and nature whatsoever in law or equity or otherwise under local state or federal law or the law of any other applicable jurisdiction that any of the assignor affiliates have against any of the franchisor affiliates including without limitation those arising from in connection with or relating to the sublease and or franchise agreement including any amendments or modifications thereto ii the operation of the franchised business including any leasing or subleasing related thereto and iii the store document of offering and sale of the franchised business arising from an act omission conduct or activity occurring before and including the effective date. it is understood by assignor that if the facts or law with respect to the foregoing release hereafter turn out to be different from the facts or law known to be or believed by assignor to be true at the time of the date hereof then assignor expressly assumes the risk of the facts or law turning out to be so different and agrees that the foregoing release shall be in all respects effective and not subject to termination or rescission in whole or in part based upon such differences. assignor and assignee hereby agree to protect defend and indemnify each of the franchisor affiliates and hold them harmless from and against any and all costs and expenses actually incurred by them or for which they are liable including without limitation attorney fees court costs expert witness fees and costs losses liabilities damages claims and demands of every kind or nature and including those incurred pursuant to a settlement entered into in good faith arising out of or in connection with the franchised business including specifically without limitation any claim or controversy arising out of i this agreement ii the franchise agreement iii sublease and or master lease iv any transfer of the franchised business by assignee or assignor acts or omissions of assignee and or assignor which are not in strict compliance with this agreement the franchise agreement sublease and or the operations manual in respect of use or display of the proprietary marks or virgin islands acts or omissions of assignee and or assignor which tend to create an impression that the relationship between the parties hereto is other than one of franchisor and franchisee. franchisor affiliates at their sole discretion may hire legal counsel to defend any actions brought against any franchisor affiliates which arise out of assignor obligations under all agreements entered into between assignor and any of the franchisor affiliates including without limitation this agreement and assignee obligations herein. assignor and assignee hereby agree to pay any and all attorneys fees expert costs and any other fees and costs incurred by any franchisor affiliates to said selected counsel upon the request of any franchisor affiliates. assignor and assignee will if requested by any franchisor affiliates defend any suits at the sole cost and expense of assignor and assignee. assignor and assignee hereby agree to defend said suits with the use of attorneys requested by any franchisor affiliates. for purposes of this provision requests shall be made pursuant to the notice provisions set forth in this agreement. notwithstanding the other provisions of this section to the contrary if any except as otherwise specified in this agreement assignor shall not be responsible for any of the acts or omissions of assignee after the effective date. assignor agrees for itself and its successors and assigns that it will not disparage denigrate or defame the franchisor affiliates or any of their business dealings financial condition pending litigation and arbitrations officers directors employees agents representatives or attorneys either publicly or privately by any means whatsoever including electronic means collectively non disparagement provision. in the event such a communication is made to anyone including but not limited to third party legal counsel adverse to franchisor affiliates in any fashion former employees of franchisor affiliates former shareholders of franchisor affiliates current or former vendors franchisees licensees or area representatives of franchisor affiliates quick service restaurant brands media government agencies public interest groups and publishing companies it will be considered a material breach of the terms of this agreement and franchisor affiliates shall be entitled to bring a legal action for appropriate equitable relief as well as damages. in addition to any other rights or remedies available at law in equity or by statute assignor consents to the specific enforcement of this non disparagement provision through an injunction or restraining order issued by an appropriate court without the requirement of posting a bond. notwithstanding the above nothing in this provision shall prevent or prohibit assignor from testifying store document of in any legal proceeding including a deposition hearing or trial from cooperating in good faith in any governmental investigation or action or from making any report required by law. each individual executing this agreement on behalf of a partnership limited liability company or corporation represents and warrants that he or she is duly authorized to execute and deliver this agreement on behalf of the partnership limited liability company or corporation and agrees to deliver evidence of his or her authority to company upon request by company. the provisions of this agreement are severable and if any one or more provisions may be determined to be unenforceable in whole or in part the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable. if the provision found to be unenforceable was material to this agreement the parties agree to promptly negotiate the terms of a substitute provision to replace the severed provision consistent with the then current law and the parties original intent. this agreement shall be construed under and according to the laws of the state of arizona without regard to conflict of laws principles. any and all court proceedings arising from this agreement shall be brought in and only in court of competent jurisdiction located in maricopa county arizona. the parties consent to the exercise of subject matter and personal jurisdiction by such courts and hereby waive any objections or defense thereto. this agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. the signatures required for execution may be transmitted to the other party via facsimile or a scanned.pdf file sent via email and such signature shall be deemed a duplicate original shall be effective upon receipt by the other party may be admitted in evidence and shall fully bind the party and person making such signature. no amendment addendum modification supplement or waiver of this agreement or any of its provisions shall be binding on the parties unless made in writing and duly executed by an authorized representative of company and assignor and assignee. failure of any party to enforce at any time any of the provisions of this agreement or to require at any time performance by another party or any provision of this agreement shall in no way be construed as a continuing waiver of those provisions or of any other rights under this agreement. except as otherwise specified in this agreement this agreement shall not be construed in any way as modifying waiving or affecting any of the terms covenants conditions or agreements contained in the franchise agreement and sublease executed by assignor or the current form of franchise agreement or sublease to be executed by assignee. this agreement shall inure to the benefit of and shall be binding upon each of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. signature page follows store document of in witness whereof each party hereto has executed this agreement by and through its duly authorized representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind his or her respective party without further consent or approval of any kind as of the effective date of this agreement. assignor by name title by name title assignee by name title by name title franchisor kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company by name title sublessor by name title store document exhibit to the franchise disclosure document state addenda to franchise documents store document addendum to franchise documents for the state of california this addendum to franchise documents for the state of california addendum dated addendum effective date to the franchise agreement as amended consent to transfer and release agreement general release promissory note and security agreement sublease each dated and including any and all exhibits attached thereto individually and collectively franchise documents between franchisee and kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company franchisor and leasing entity a sublessor hereby amends the franchise documents by the addition of the following language which shall be considered an integral part of the agreement. to the extent this addendum contains terms and conditions that differ from those contained in the franchise documents this addendum shall control. the parties agree that a concept or principle covered in this addendum shall apply and be incorporated into all other provisions of the franchise documents in which the concept or principle is also applicable notwithstanding the absence of any specific cross reference thereto. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this addendum will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the franchise documents. california law modifications. the california franchise investment law requires that a copy of all proposed agreements relating to the sale of the franchise be delivered together with the disclosure document. the franchise agreement provides for termination upon bankruptcy. this provision may not be enforceable under federal bankruptcy law. second et seq. the franchise agreement contains a covenant not to compete which extends beyond the termination of the franchise. this provision may not be enforceable under california law. the franchise documents require application of the laws of the state of arizona. this provision may not be enforceable under california law. section of the california corporations code requires us to give you a disclosure document in a form containing the information that the commissioner may by rule or order require before a solicitation of a proposed material modification of an existing franchise. california corporations code voids a waiver of your rights under the franchise investment law california corporations code through. business and professions code voids a waiver of your rights under the franchise relations act business and professions code through. the franchise agreement requires binding arbitration. the arbitration will occur at the american arbitration association office in maricopa county arizona or if our headquarters are no longer located in maricopa county arizona then the arbitration store document shall take place in the county in which our headquarters are located at the time the arbitration is commenced with all of the costs of the arbitration including the fees of the arbitrator and the reasonable attorney fees of the prevailing party to be paid by the party that did not prevail. prospective franchisees are encouraged to consult private legal counsel to determine the applicability of california and federal laws such as business and professions code section. code of civil procedure section and the federal arbitration act to any provisions of a franchise agreement restricting venue to a forum outside the state of california. california business and professions code sections through provide rights to the franchisee concerning transfer termination or non renewal of a franchise. if the franchise agreement contains a provision that is inconsistent with the law the law will control. if the franchisee resides in the state of california or the franchised business is located within the state of california the venue for any dispute may be within the state of california. business and professions code section. voids restricting a venue to a forum outside california with respect to any claim arising under or relating to a franchise involving a franchise business operating in california. no statement questionnaire or acknowledgment signed or agreed to by a franchisee in connection with the commencement of the franchise relationship shall have the effect of i waiving any claims under any applicable state franchise law including fraud in the inducement or ii disclaiming reliance on any statement made by any franchisor franchise seller or other person acting on behalf of the franchisor. this provision supersedes any other term of any document executed in connection with the franchise. each provision of this addendum shall be effective only to the extent that the jurisdictional requirements of the california law applicable to the provision are met independent of this addendum. this addendum shall have no force or effect if such jurisdictional requirements are not met. except as set forth in this addendum the terms and provisions of the franchise documents shall remain in full force and effect. in witness whereof each party hereto by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind his or her respective party without further consent or approval of any kind have duly executed and delivered this addendum as of the addendum effective date. franchisor kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company by name title franchisee by name title by name title store document sublessor by name title store document addendum to franchise documents for the state of hawaii this addendum to franchise documents for the state of hawaii addendum dated addendum effective date to the franchise agreement as amended consent to transfer and release agreement general release promissory note and security agreement sublease each dated and including any and all exhibits attached thereto individually and collectively franchise documents between franchisee and kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company franchisor and leasing entity a sublessor hereby amends the franchise documents by the addition of the following language which shall be considered an integral part of the agreement. to the extent this addendum contains terms and conditions that differ from those contained in the franchise documents this addendum shall control. the parties agree that a concept or principle covered in this addendum shall apply and be incorporated into all other provisions of the franchise documents in which the concept or principle is also applicable notwithstanding the absence of any specific cross reference thereto. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this addendum will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the franchise documents. the director of the hawaii department of commerce and consumer affairs requires that certain provisions contained in franchise documents be amended to be consistent with hawaii law including the hawaii franchise investment law hawaii revised statutes title chapter east through east to the extent that the agreement contains provisions that are inconsistent with the following such provisions are hereby amended a the hawaii franchise investment law provides rights to you concerning non renewal termination and transfer of the franchise agreement. if the franchise agreement contains a provision that is inconsistent with the law the law will control. among those rights the law may require that upon termination or non renewal franchisor purchase for fair market value franchisee inventory supplies equipment and furnishings purchased from franchisor or a supplier designated by franchisor provided that personalized materials which have no value to franchisor need not be compensated for. if the non renewal or termination is for the purpose of converting the franchisee business to one owned and operated by franchisor franchisor may additionally be obligated to compensate the franchisee for loss of goodwill. franchisor may deduct all amounts due from franchisee and any costs related to the transportation or disposition of items purchased against any payment for those items. if the parties cannot agree on fair market value fair market value shall be determined in the manner set forth in the franchise agreement. if the franchise agreement does not provide for determination of fair market value of assets for purchase by franchisor such amount will be determined by an independent appraiser approved by both parties and the costs of the appraisal shall be shared equally by the parties. if the franchisee is required in the franchise documents to execute a release of claims such release shall exclude claims arising under the hawaii franchise investment law. any condition stipulation or provision binding the franchisee to waive compliance with any provision of section east of the hawaii franchise investment law shall be void. store document the requirement of a franchisee to purchase or lease goods or services of the franchisor or from designated sources may not be enforceable under hawaii franchise investment law unless it is reasonably necessary for a lawful purpose and does not substantially affect competition. the hawaii franchise investment law prohibits the franchisor from establishing a similar business or granting a franchise for the establishment of a similar business to that of the franchisee within the franchisee exclusive territory. to the extent the franchise documents contain a provision that is inconsistent with the act the act will control. no statement questionnaire or acknowledgment signed or agreed to by a franchisee in connection with the commencement of the franchise relationship shall have the effect of i waiving any claims under any applicable state franchise law including fraud in the inducement or ii disclaiming reliance on any statement made by any franchisor franchise seller or other person acting on behalf of the franchisor. this provision supersedes any other term of any document executed in connection with the franchise. section east a of the hawaii franchise investment law requires us to give you a copy of the franchise disclosure document at least calendar days prior to signing the agreement. the franchise documents permits us to terminate the agreement upon your bankruptcy. this provision may not be enforceable under federal bankruptcy law. et seq. each provision of this addendum shall be effective only to the extent that the jurisdictional requirements of the hawaii franchise investment law applicable to the provision are met independent of this addendum. this addendum shall have no force or effect if such jurisdictional requirements are not met. except as set forth in this addendum the terms and provisions of the agreement shall remain in full force and effect. in witness whereof each party hereto by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind his or her respective party without further consent or approval of any kind have duly executed and delivered this addendum as of the addendum effective date. franchisor kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company by name title franchisee by name title by name title store document sublessor by name title store document addendum to franchise documents for the state of illinois this addendum to franchise documents for the state of illinois addendum dated addendum effective date to the franchise agreement as amended consent to transfer and release agreement general release promissory note and security agreement sublease each dated and including any and all exhibits attached thereto individually and collectively franchise documents between franchisee and kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company franchisor and leasing entity a sublessor hereby amends the franchise documents by the addition of the following language which shall be considered an integral part of the agreement. to the extent this addendum contains terms and conditions that differ from those contained in the franchise documents this addendum shall control. the parties agree that a concept or principle covered in this addendum shall apply and be incorporated into all other provisions of the franchise documents in which the concept or principle is also applicable notwithstanding the absence of any specific cross reference thereto. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this addendum will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the franchise documents. illinois law modifications. the illinois attorney general office requires that certain provisions contained in franchise documents be amended to be consistent with illinois law including the franchise disclosure act of iii. comp. statistical ch. para. to the extent that the franchise documents contain provisions that are inconsistent with the following such provisions are hereby amended a illinois franchise disclosure act sections and provide rights to the franchisee concerning non renewal and termination of the franchise agreement. if the franchise agreement contains a provision that is inconsistent with the act the act will control. if the franchisee is required in the franchise documents to execute a release of claims or to acknowledge facts that would negate or remove from judicial review any statement misrepresentation or action that would violate the act or a rule of order under the act such release shall exclude claims arising under the illinois franchise disclosure act and such acknowledgements shall be void with respect to claims under the act. if the franchise documents designate jurisdiction or venue in a forum other than the state of illinois the requirement is void under the illinois franchise disclosure act except that the franchise documents may provide for arbitration in a forum outside the state of illinois. if the franchise documents requires that it be governed by a state law other than the state of illinois to the extent that such law conflicts with the illinois franchise disclosure act the act will control. section of the illinois franchise disclosure act states that any condition stipulation or provision purporting to bind any person acquiring any franchise to waive compliance with any provision of this act is void. store document no statement questionnaire or acknowledgment signed or agreed to by a franchisee in connection with the commencement of the franchise relationship shall have the effect of i waiving any claims under any applicable state franchise law including fraud in the inducement or ii disclaiming reliance on any statement made by any franchisor franchise seller or other person acting on behalf of the franchisor. this provision supersedes any other term of any document executed in connection with the franchise. each provision of this addendum shall be effective only to the extent that the jurisdictional requirements of the illinois franchise disclosure act with respect to each such provision are met independent of this addendum. this addendum shall have no force or effect if such jurisdictional requirements are not met. except as set forth in this addendum the terms and provisions of the franchise documents shall remain in full force and effect. in witness whereof each party hereto by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind his or her respective party without further consent or approval of any kind have duly executed and delivered this addendum as of the addendum effective date. franchisor kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company by name title sublessor by name title franchisee by name title by name title store document addendum to franchise documents for the state of indiana this addendum to franchise documents for the state of indiana addendum dated addendum effective date to the franchise agreement as amended consent to transfer and release agreement general release promissory note and security agreement sublease each dated and including any and all exhibits attached thereto individually and collectively franchise documents between franchisee and kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company franchisor and leasing entity a sublessor hereby amends the franchise documents by the addition of the following language which shall be considered an integral part of the agreement. to the extent this addendum contains terms and conditions that differ from those contained in the franchise documents this addendum shall control. the parties agree that a concept or principle covered in this addendum shall apply and be incorporated into all other provisions of the franchise documents in which the concept or principle is also applicable notwithstanding the absence of any specific cross reference thereto. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this addendum will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the franchise documents. indiana law modifications. the indiana securities commissioner requires that certain provisions contained in franchise documents be amended to be consistent with indiana law including the indiana franchises act industry code annual and the indiana deceptive franchise practices act industry code annual to the extent that the agreement contains provisions that are inconsistent with the following such provisions are hereby amended a the indiana deceptive franchise practices act provides rights to franchisee concerning non renewal and termination of the franchise agreement. to the extent the franchise agreement contains a provision that is inconsistent with the act the act will control. if the franchisee is required in the franchise documents to execute a release of claims or to acknowledge facts that would negate or remove from judicial review any statement misrepresentation or action that would violate the act or a rule of order under the act such release shall exclude claims arising under the indiana deceptive franchise practices act and the indiana franchises act and such acknowledgements shall be void with respect to claims under the act. if the franchise agreement contains covenants not to compete upon expiration or termination of the franchise agreement that are inconsistent with the indiana deceptive franchise practices act the requirements of the act will control. the indiana deceptive franchise practices act provides that substantial modification of the agreement by franchisor requires written consent of the franchisee. if the agreement contains provisions that are inconsistent with this requirement the act will control. if the franchise documents requires litigation arbitration to be conducted in a forum other than the state of indiana the requirement may be unenforceable store document as a limitation on litigation under the indiana deceptive franchise practices act. if the franchise documents requires that it be governed by a state law other than the state of indiana to the extent that such law conflicts with the indiana deceptive franchise practices act and the indiana franchises act the acts will control. the indiana deceptive franchise practices act provides rights to franchisee concerning the waiver of claims or rights. to the extent the franchise documents contains a provision that is inconsistent with the act the act will control. the indiana deceptive franchise practices act provides rights to franchisee concerning the time period to bring an action against the franchisor. to the extent the agreement contains a provision that is inconsistent with the act the act will control. i the indiana deceptive franchise practices act prohibits the franchisor from operating a substantially identical business to that of the franchisee within the franchisee territory regardless of trade name. to the extent the agreement contains a provision that is inconsistent with the act the act will control. the indiana deceptive franchise practice act excludes any indemnification for liability caused by the franchisee proper reliance on or use of procedures or materials provided by the franchisor. to the extent the agreement contains a provision that is inconsistent with the act the act will control. if the franchise agreement requires goods supplies inventories or services to be purchased exclusively from the franchisor or sources designated by the franchisor where such goods supplies inventories or services of comparable quality are available from sources other than those designated by the franchisor to the extent that such law conflicts with the indiana deceptive franchise practices act and the indiana franchises act the acts will control. providing a list of approved suppliers to comply with specifications and standards prescribed by franchisor does not constitute designation of a source under the indiana deceptive franchise practices act. no statement questionnaire or acknowledgment signed or agreed to by a franchisee in connection with the commencement of the franchise relationship shall have the effect of i waiving any claims under any applicable state franchise law including fraud in the inducement or ii disclaiming reliance on any statement made by any franchisor franchise seller or other person acting on behalf of the franchisor. this provision supersedes any other term of any document executed in connection with the franchise. indiana code. requires us to give you a copy of the franchise disclosure document at the earlier of i days prior to signing the agreement or ii days prior to our receipt of any consideration. each provision of this addendum shall be effective only to the extent that the jurisdictional requirements of the indiana deceptive practices act and the indiana franchises act store document with respect to each such provision are met independent of this addendum. this addendum shall have no force or effect if such jurisdictional requirements are not met. except as set forth in this addendum the terms and provisions of the franchise documents shall remain in full force and effect. store document in witness whereof each party hereto by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind his or her respective party without further consent or approval of any kind has duly executed and delivered this addendum as of the addendum effective date. franchisor kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company by name title sublessor by name title franchisee by name title by name title store document addendum to franchise documents for the state of maryland this addendum to franchise documents for the state of maryland addendum dated addendum effective date to the franchise agreement as amended consent to transfer and release agreement general release promissory note and security agreement sublease each dated and including any and all exhibits attached thereto individually and collectively franchise documents between franchisee and kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company franchisor and leasing entity a sublessor hereby amends the franchise documents by the addition of the following language which shall be considered an integral part of the agreement. to the extent this addendum contains terms and conditions that differ from those contained in the franchise documents this addendum shall control. the parties agree that a concept or principle covered in this addendum shall apply and be incorporated into all other provisions of the franchise documents in which the concept or principle is also applicable notwithstanding the absence of any specific cross reference thereto. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this addendum will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the franchise documents. maryland law modifications. the maryland securities division requires that certain provisions contained in franchise documents be amended to be consistent with maryland law including the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. to the extent that the agreement contains provisions that are inconsistent with the following such provisions are hereby amended a the general release required as a condition of assignment transfer shall not apply to any liability under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. the general release required as a condition of renewal shall not apply to any liability under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. the franchise documents requires litigation to be conducted in the state of arizona. the franchise documents are amended to state that the requirement for litigation to be conducted in a forum other than the state of maryland shall not be interpreted to limit any rights franchisee may have to bring suit in the state of maryland. franchisee may file a civil lawsuit in maryland for claims arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. any claims arising under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law must be brought within three years after the grant of the franchise. the franchise documents provide that certain disputes are resolved through arbitration. maryland franchise regulation states that it is an unfair or deceptive practice to require a franchisee to waive its right to file a lawsuit in maryland claiming a violation of the maryland franchise law. in light of the federal arbitration act there is some dispute as to whether this forum selection requirement is legally enforceable. store document based upon the franchisor financial condition the maryland securities commissioner has required a financial assurance. therefore all initial fees and payments owed by franchisees shall be deferred until the franchisor completes its pre opening obligations under the franchise documents. all representations requiring prospective franchisees to assent to a release estoppel or waiver of liability are not intended to nor shall they act as a release estoppel or waiver of any liability incurred under the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law. no statement questionnaire or acknowledgment signed or agreed to by a franchisee in connection with the commencement of the franchise relationship shall have the effect of i waiving any claims under any applicable state franchise law including fraud in the inducement or ii disclaiming reliance on any statement made by any franchisor franchise seller or other person acting on behalf of the franchisor. this provision supersedes any other term of any document executed in connection with the franchise. each provision of this addendum shall be effective only to the extent that the jurisdictional requirements of the maryland franchise registration and disclosure law with respect to each such provision are met independent of this addendum. this addendum shall have no force or effect if such jurisdictional requirements are not met. except as set forth in this addendum the terms and provisions of the franchise documents shall remain in full force and effect. in witness whereof each party hereto by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind his or her respective party without further consent or approval of any kind have duly executed and delivered this addendum as of the addendum effective date. franchisor kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company by name title sublessor by name title franchisee by name title by name title store document addendum to franchise documents for the state of michigan section. of the michigan franchise investment law requires franchisor to give you a copy of the franchise disclosure document earlier of i business days prior to signing the franchise agreement or ii business days prior to franchisor receipt of any consideration. the state of michigan prohibits certain unfair provisions that are sometimes in the franchise documents. if any of the following provisions are in these franchise documents the provisions are void and cannot be enforced against you a prohibition on the right of a franchisee to join an association of franchisees. requirement that a franchisee assent to a release assignment novation waiver or estoppel which deprives a franchisee of rights and protections provided in this act. this shall not preclude a franchisee after entering into a franchise agreement from settling any and all claims. provision that permits a franchisor to terminate a franchise prior to the expiration of its term except for good cause. good cause shall include the failure of the franchisee to comply with any lawful provision of the franchise agreement and to cure such failure after being given written notice thereof and a reasonable opportunity which in no event need be more than days to cure such failure. provision that permits a franchisor to refuse to renew a franchise without fairly compensating the franchisee by repurchase or other means for the fair market value at the time of expiration of the franchisee inventory supplies equipment fixtures and furnishings. personalized materials which have no value to the franchisor and inventory supplies equipment fixtures and furnishings not reasonably required in the conduct of the franchise business are not subject to compensation. this subsection applies only if i the term of the franchise is less than years and ii the franchisee is prohibited by the franchise or other agreement from continuing to conduct substantially the same business under another trademark service mark trade name logotype advertising or other commercial symbol in the same area subsequent to the expiration of the franchise or the franchisee does not receive at least months advance notice of franchisor intent not to renew the franchise. provision that permits the franchisor to refuse to renew a franchise on terms generally available to other franchisees of the same class or type under similar circumstances. this section does not require a renewal provision. provision requiring that arbitration or litigation be conducted outside this state. this shall not preclude the franchisee from entering into an agreement at the time of arbitration to conduct arbitration at a location outside this state. provision which permits a franchisor to refuse to permit a transfer of ownership of a franchise except for good cause. this subdivision does not prevent a franchisor from exercising a right of first refusal to purchase the franchise. good cause shall include but is not limited to store document i the failure of the proposed transferee to meet the franchisor then current reasonable qualifications or standards. ii the fact that the proposed transferee is a competitor of the franchisor or subfranchisor. iii the unwillingness of the proposed transferee to agree in writing to comply with all lawful obligations. iv the failure of the franchisee or proposed transferee to pay any sums owing to the franchisor or to cure any default in the franchise agreement existing at the time of the proposed transfer. provision that requires the franchisee to resell to the franchisor items that are not uniquely identified with the franchisor. this subdivision does not prohibit a provision that grants to a franchisor a right of first refusal to purchase the assets of a franchise on the same terms and conditions as a bona fide third party willing and able to purchase those assets nor does this subdivision prohibit a provision that grants the franchisor the right to acquire the assets of a franchise for the market or appraised value of such assets if the franchisee has breached the lawful provisions of the franchise agreement and has failed to cure the breach in the manner provided in subdivision. i provision which permits the franchisor to directly or indirectly convey assign or otherwise transfer its obligations to fulfill contractual obligations to the franchisee unless provision has been made for providing the required contractual services. no statement questionnaire or acknowledgment signed or agreed to by a franchisee in connection with the commencement of the franchise relationship shall have the effect of i waiving any claims under any applicable state franchise law including fraud in the inducement or ii disclaiming reliance on any statement made by any franchisor franchise seller or other person acting on behalf of the franchisor. this provision supersedes any other term of any document executed in connection with the franchise. the fact that there is notice of this offering on file with the attorney general does not constitute approval recommendation or endorsement by the attorney general. any questions regarding this notice shall be directed to state of michigan department of the attorney general attention franchise section. box lansing michigan store document addendum to franchise documents for the state of minnesota this addendum to franchise documents for the state of minnesota addendum dated addendum effective date to the franchise agreement as amended consent to transfer and release agreement general release promissory note and security agreement sublease each dated and including any and all exhibits attached thereto individually and collectively franchise documents between franchisee and kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company franchisor and leasing entity a sublessor hereby amends the franchise documents by the addition of the following language which shall be considered an integral part of the agreement. to the extent this addendum contains terms and conditions that differ from those contained in the franchise documents this addendum shall control. the parties agree that a concept or principle covered in this addendum shall apply and be incorporated into all other provisions of the franchise documents in which the concept or principle is also applicable notwithstanding the absence of any specific cross reference thereto. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this addendum will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the franchise documents. minnesota law modifications. the commissioner of commerce for the state of minnesota requires that certain provisions contained in franchise documents be amended to be consistent with minnesota franchise act minn. statistical section. et seq. and of the rules and regulations promulgated under the act collectively franchise act. to the extent that the franchise documents and disclosure document contain provisions that are inconsistent with the following such provisions are hereby amended a minnesota statutes section circa and minnesota rules. prohibit the franchisor from requiring litigation to be conducted outside minnesota requiring waiver of a jury trial or requiring the franchisee to consent to liquidated damages termination penalties or judgment notes. in addition nothing in the franchise disclosure document or agreement can abrogate or reduce any of the franchisee rights as provided for in minnesota statutes chapter county or franchisee rights to any procedure forum or remedies provided for by the laws of the jurisdiction. any condition stipulation or provision including any choice of law provision purporting to bind any person who at the time of acquiring a franchise is a resident of this state or in the case of a partnership or corporation organized or incorporated under the laws of this state or purporting to bind a person acquiring any franchise to be operated in this state to waive compliance or which has the effect of waiving compliance with any provision of sections circa to circa or any rule or order thereunder is void under the minnesota franchise act minn. statistical circa with respect to franchises governed by minnesota law the franchisor will comply with minnesota statutes section circa subd. which require except in certain specified cases that a franchisee be given days notice of termination with days to cure and days notice for non renewal of the franchise agreement and that consent to the transfer of the franchise will not be unreasonably withheld. https https store document minnesota considers it unfair to not protect the franchisee right to use the trademarks. refer to minnesota statues section circa subd. the franchisor will protect the franchisee rights to use the trademarks service marks trade names logotypes or other commercial symbols or indemnify the franchisee from any loss costs or expenses arising out of any claim suit or demand regarding the use of the name. minnesota rules. prohibits a franchisor from requiring a franchisee to assent to a general release assignment novation or waiver that would relieve any person from liability imposed by minnesota statutes supplement sections circa to circa provided that this part shall not bar the voluntary settlement of disputes. the franchisee cannot consent to the franchisor obtaining injunctive relief. the franchisor may seek injunctive relief. see minn. rules. j also a court will determine if a bond is required. the limitations of claims section must comply with minnesota statutes section circa subd. minnesota limits a service charge not to exceed for any dishonored check by the payee or holder of the check. see minn. rules. no statement questionnaire or acknowledgment signed or agreed to by a franchisee in connection with the commencement of the franchise relationship shall have the effect of i waiving any claims under any applicable state franchise law including fraud in the inducement or ii disclaiming reliance on any statement made by any franchisor franchise seller or other person acting on behalf of the franchisor. this provision supersedes any other term of any document executed in connection with the franchise. each provision of this addendum shall be effective only to the extent that the jurisdictional requirements of the minnesota law applicable to the provision are met independent of this addendum. this addendum shall have no force or effect if such jurisdictional requirements are not met. except as set forth in this addendum the terms and provisions of the franchise documents shall remain in full force and effect. in witness whereof each party hereto by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind his or her respective party without further consent or approval of any kind have duly executed and delivered this addendum as of the addendum effective date. https https store document franchisor kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company by name title sublessor by name title franchisee by name title by name title store document addendum to franchise documents for the state of north dakota this addendum to franchise documents for the state of north dakota addendum dated addendum effective date to the franchise agreement as amended consent to transfer and release agreement general release promissory note and security agreement sublease each dated and including any and all exhibits attached thereto individually and collectively franchise documents between franchisee and kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company franchisor and leasing entity a sublessor hereby amends the franchise documents by the addition of the following language which shall be considered an integral part of the agreement. to the extent this addendum contains terms and conditions that differ from those contained in the franchise documents this addendum shall control. the parties agree that a concept or principle covered in this addendum shall apply and be incorporated into all other provisions of the franchise documents in which the concept or principle is also applicable notwithstanding the absence of any specific cross reference thereto. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this addendum will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the franchise documents. north dakota law modifications. the north dakota securities commissioner requires that certain provisions contained in franchise documents be amended to be consistent with north dakota law including the north dakota franchise investment law north dakota century code annotated chapter sections through. to the extent that the agreement contains provisions that are inconsistent with the following such provisions are hereby amended a if the franchisee is required in the franchise documents to execute a release of claims or to acknowledge facts that would negate or remove from judicial review any statement misrepresentation or action that would violate the law or a rule or order under the law such release shall exclude claims arising under the north dakota franchise investment law and such acknowledgements shall be void with respect to claims under the law. covenants not to compete during the term and upon termination or expiration of the franchise agreement are enforceable only under certain conditions according to north dakota law. if the agreement contains a covenant not to compete which is inconsistent with north dakota law the covenant may be unenforceable. if the franchise documents require litigation to be conducted in a forum other than the state of north dakota the requirement is void with respect to claims under the north dakota franchise investment law. if the franchise documents require that it be governed by a state law other than the state of north dakota to the extent that such law conflicts with the north dakota franchise investment law the north dakota franchise investment law will control. if the franchise documents require mediation or arbitration to be conducted in a forum other than the state of north dakota the requirement may be unenforceable under the store document north dakota franchise investment law. arbitration involving a franchise purchased in the state of north dakota must be held either in a location mutually agreed upon prior to the arbitration or if the parties cannot agree on a location the location will be determined by the arbitrator. if the franchise agreement requires payment of a termination penalty the requirement may be unenforceable under the north dakota franchise investment law. section of the north dakota franchise investment law requires franchisor to give you a copy of the franchise disclosure document at the earlier of i seven days prior to signing the franchise agreement or ii seven days prior to franchisor receipt of any consideration. no statement questionnaire or acknowledgment signed or agreed to by a franchisee in connection with the commencement of the franchise relationship shall have the effect of i waiving any claims under any applicable state franchise law including fraud in the inducement or ii disclaiming reliance on any statement made by any franchisor franchise seller or other person acting on behalf of the franchisor. this provision supersedes any other term of any document executed in connection with the franchise. the securities commissioner has held the following to be unfair unjust or inequitable to north dakota franchisees ndcc section. restrictive covenants franchise disclosure documents which disclose the existence of covenants restricting competition contrary to ndcc section without further disclosing that such covenants will be subject to the statute. situs of arbitration proceedings franchise agreements providing that the parties must agree to the arbitration of disputes at a location that is remote from the site of the franchisee business. restrictions on forum requiring north dakota franchisees to consent to the jurisdiction of courts outside of north dakota. liquidated damages and termination penalties requiring north dakota franchisees to consent to liquidated damages or termination penalties. applicable laws franchise agreements which specify that they are to be governed by the laws of a state other than north dakota. waiver of trial by jury requiring north dakota franchises to consent to the waiver of a trial by jury. waiver of exemplary punitive damages requiring north dakota franchisees to consent to a waiver of exemplary and punitive damage. general release franchise agreements that require the franchisee to sign a general release upon renewal of the franchise agreement. store document limitation of claims franchise agreements that require the franchisee to consent to a limitation of claims. the statute of limitations under north dakota law applies. enforcement of agreement franchise agreements that require the franchisee to pay all costs and expenses incurred by the franchisor in enforcing the agreement. the prevailing party in any enforcement action is entitled to recover all costs and expenses including attorney fees. each provision of this addendum shall be effective only to the extent that the jurisdictional requirements of the north dakota franchise investment law with respect to each such provision are met independent of this addendum. this addendum shall have no force or effect if such jurisdictional requirements are not met. except as set forth in this addendum the terms and provisions of the franchise documents shall remain in full force and effect. in witness whereof each party hereto by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind his or her respective party without further consent or approval of any kind have duly executed and delivered this addendum as of the addendum effective date. franchisor kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company by name title sublessor by name title franchisee by name title by name title store document addendum to franchise documents for the state of new york this addendum to franchise documents for the state of new york addendum dated addendum effective date to the franchise agreement as amended consent to transfer and release agreement general release promissory note and security agreement sublease each dated and including any and all exhibits attached thereto individually and collectively franchise documents between franchisee and kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company franchisor and leasing entity a sublessor hereby amends the franchise documents by the addition of the following language which shall be considered an integral part of the agreement. to the extent this addendum contains terms and conditions that differ from those contained in the franchise documents this addendum shall control. the parties agree that a concept or principle covered in this addendum shall apply and be incorporated into all other provisions of the franchise documents in which the concept or principle is also applicable notwithstanding the absence of any specific cross reference thereto. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this addendum will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the franchise documents new york law modifications. the new york department of law requires that certain provisions contained in franchise documents be amended to be consistent with new york law including the general business law article section through. to the extent that the agreement contains provisions that are inconsistent with the following such provisions are hereby amended a if the franchisee is required in the franchise documents to execute a release of claims or to acknowledge facts that would negate or remove from judicial review any statement misrepresentation or action that would violate the general business law regulation rule or order under the law such release shall exclude claims arising under the new york general business law article section through and the regulations promulgated thereunder and such acknowledgements shall be void. it is the intent of this provision that non waiver provisions of sections. and. of the general business law be satisfied. if the franchise documents requires that it be governed by a state law other than the state of new york the choice of law provision shall not be considered to waive any rights conferred upon the franchisee under the new york general business law article sections through. if the franchisee is required in the franchise documents to waive compliance with general business law or rule under the law such condition stipulation or provision shall be void. no statement questionnaire or acknowledgment signed or agreed to by a franchisee in connection with the commencement of the franchise relationship shall have the effect of i waiving any claims under any applicable state franchise law including fraud in the inducement or ii disclaiming reliance on any statement made by any franchisor franchise store document seller or other person acting on behalf of the franchisor. this provision supersedes any other term of any document executed in connection with the franchise. each provision of this addendum shall be effective only to the extent that the jurisdictional requirements of new york general business law with respect to each such provision are met. each provision of this addendum shall be effective only to the extent that the jurisdictional requirements of the new york law applicable to the provision are met independent of this addendum. this addendum shall have no force or effect if such jurisdictional requirements are not met. except as set forth above the terms and provisions of the franchise documents shall remain in full force and effect. in witness whereof each party hereto by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind his or her respective party without further consent or approval of any kind have duly executed and delivered this addendum as of the addendum effective date. franchisor kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company by name title sublessor by name title franchisee by name title by name title store document addendum to franchise documents for the state of rhode island this addendum to franchise documents for the state of rhode island addendum dated addendum effective date to the franchise agreement as amended consent to transfer and release agreement general release promissory note and security agreement sublease each dated and including any and all exhibits attached thereto individually and collectively franchise documents between franchisee and kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company franchisor and leasing entity a sublessor hereby amends the franchise documents by the addition of the following language which shall be considered an integral part of the agreement. to the extent this addendum contains terms and conditions that differ from those contained in the franchise documents this addendum shall control. the parties agree that a concept or principle covered in this addendum shall apply and be incorporated into all other provisions of the franchise documents in which the concept or principle is also applicable notwithstanding the absence of any specific cross reference thereto. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this addendum will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the franchise documents. rhode island law modifications. the rhode island securities division requires that certain provisions contained in franchise documents be amended to be consistent with rhode island law including the franchise investment act. gen. law. ch. second to the extent that the agreement contains provisions that are inconsistent with the following such provisions are hereby amended a if the franchise documents restricts jurisdiction or venue to a forum other than the state of rhode island the requirement is void under rhode island franchise investment act second if the franchise documents requires that it be governed by a state law other than the state of rhode island to the extent that such law conflicts with rhode island franchise investment act it is void under second if the franchisee is required in the franchise documents to execute a release of claims or to acknowledge facts that would negate or remove from judicial review any statement misrepresentation or action that would violate the act or a rule or order under the act such release shall exclude claims arising under the rhode island franchise investment act and such acknowledgements shall be void with respect to claims under the act. no statement questionnaire or acknowledgment signed or agreed to by a franchisee in connection with the commencement of the franchise relationship shall have the effect of i waiving any claims under any applicable state franchise law including fraud in the inducement or ii disclaiming reliance on any statement made by any franchisor franchise seller or other person acting on behalf of the franchisor. this provision store document supersedes any other term of any document executed in connection with the franchise. each provision of this addendum shall be effective only to the extent that the jurisdictional requirements of the rhode island franchise investment act with respect to each such provision are met independent of this addendum. this addendum shall have no force or effect if such jurisdictional requirements are not met. each provision of this addendum shall be effective only to the extent that the jurisdictional requirements of the rhode island franchise investment act applicable to the provision are met independent of this addendum. this addendum shall have no force or effect if such jurisdictional requirements are not met. except as set forth in this addendum the terms and provisions of the franchise documents shall remain in full force and effect. in witness whereof each party hereto by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind his or her respective party without further consent or approval of any kind have duly executed and delivered this addendum as of the addendum effective date. franchisor kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company by name title franchisee by name title by name title sublessor a by name title store document addendum to franchise documents for the state of south dakota this addendum to franchise documents for the state of south dakota addendum dated addendum effective date to the franchise agreement as amended consent to transfer and release agreement general release promissory note and security agreement sublease each dated and including any and all exhibits attached thereto individually and collectively franchise documents between franchisee and kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company franchisor and leasing entity a sublessor hereby amends the franchise documents by the addition of the following language which shall be considered an integral part of the agreement. to the extent this addendum contains terms and conditions that differ from those contained in the franchise documents this addendum shall control. the parties agree that a concept or principle covered in this addendum shall apply and be incorporated into all other provisions of the franchise documents in which the concept or principle is also applicable notwithstanding the absence of any specific cross reference thereto. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this addendum will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the franchise documents. south dakota law modifications. the director of the south dakota division of securities requires that certain provisions contained in franchise documents be amended to be consistent with south dakota law including the south dakota franchise investment law south dakota codified laws title chapter b sections b through b to the extent that the agreement contains provisions that are inconsistent with the following such provisions are hereby amended a if the franchisee is required in the franchise documents to execute a release of claims or to acknowledge facts that would negate or remove from judicial review any statement misrepresentation or action that would violate the law or a rule or order under the law such release shall exclude claims arising under the south dakota franchise investment law and such acknowledgements shall be void with respect to claims under the law. covenants not to compete upon termination or expiration of the franchise agreement are generally unenforceable in the state of south dakota except in certain limited instances as provided by law. if the agreement contains a covenant not to compete which is inconsistent with south dakota law the covenant may be unenforceable. regardless of the terms of the franchise agreement concerning termination if franchisee fails to meet performance and quality standards or fails to make any royalty payments under the franchise agreement franchisee will be afforded thirty days written notice with an opportunity to cure the default before termination. store document if the franchise documents require payment of liquidated damages that are inconsistent with south dakota law the liquidated damage clause may be void under sdcl. if the franchise documents require litigation to be conducted in a forum other than the state of south dakota the requirement is void with respect to any cause of action otherwise enforceable under south dakota law. if the franchise documents require that it be governed by a state law other than the state of south dakota matters regarding franchise registration employment covenants not to compete and other matters of local concern will be governed by the laws of the state of south dakota but as to contractual and all other matters the agreement and all provisions of this addendum will be and remain subject to the application construction enforcement interpretation under the governing law set forth in the agreement. if the franchise documents require that disputed between franchisor and franchisee be mediated arbitrated at a location that is outside the state of south dakota the mediation arbitration will be conducted at a location mutually agreed upon by the parties. if the parties cannot agree on location for the mediation arbitration the location shall be determined by the mediator arbitrator selected. any condition stipulation or provision in the franchise documents requiring franchisee to waive compliance of a provision under the south dakota franchise investment law may be void. i no statement questionnaire or acknowledgment signed or agreed to by a franchisee in connection with the commencement of the franchise relationship shall have the effect of i waiving any claims under any applicable state franchise law including fraud in the inducement or ii disclaiming reliance on any statement made by any franchisor franchise seller or other person acting on behalf of the franchisor. this provision supersedes any other term of any document executed in connection with the franchise. each provision of this addendum shall be effective only to the extent that the jurisdictional requirements of the south dakota franchise investment law with respect to each such provision are met independent of this addendum. this addendum shall have no force or effect if such jurisdictional requirements are not met. except as set forth in this addendum the terms and provisions of the franchise documents shall remain in full force and effect. in witness whereof each party hereto by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind his or her respective party without further consent or approval of any kind have duly executed and delivered this addendum as of the addendum effective date. store document franchisor kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company by name title franchisee by name title by name title sublessor a by name title store document addendum to franchise documents for the state of virginia this addendum to franchise documents for the state of virginia addendum dated addendum effective date to the franchise agreement as amended consent to transfer and release agreement general release promissory note and security agreement sublease each dated and including any and all exhibits attached thereto individually and collectively franchise documents between franchisee and kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company franchisor and leasing entity a sublessor hereby amends the franchise documents by the addition of the following language which shall be considered an integral part of the agreement. to the extent this addendum contains terms and conditions that differ from those contained in the franchise documents this addendum shall control. the parties agree that a concept or principle covered in this addendum shall apply and be incorporated into all other provisions of the franchise documents in which the concept or principle is also applicable notwithstanding the absence of any specific cross reference thereto. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this addendum will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the franchise documents. pursuant to section. of the virginia retail franchising act it is unlawful for a franchisor to cancel a franchise without reasonable cause. if any grounds for default or termination stated in the franchise agreement does not constitute reasonable cause as that term may be defined in the virginia retail franchising act or the laws of virginia that provision may not be enforceable. each provision of this addendum shall be effective only to the extent that the jurisdictional requirements of the virginia retail franchising act applicable to the provision are met independent of this addendum. this addendum shall have no force or effect if such jurisdictional requirements are not met. except as set forth in this addendum the terms and provisions of the franchise documents shall remain in full force and effect. no statement questionnaire or acknowledgment signed or agreed to by a franchisee in connection with the commencement of the franchise relationship shall have the effect of i waiving any claims under any applicable state franchise law including fraud in the inducement or ii disclaiming reliance on any statement made by any franchisor franchise seller or other person acting on behalf of the franchisor. this provision supersedes any other term of any document executed in connection with the franchise. in witness whereof each party hereto by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind his or her respective party without further consent or approval of any kind have duly executed and delivered this addendum as of the addendum effective date. store document franchisor kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company by name title franchisee by name title by name title sublessor a by name title store document addendum to the franchise documents required by the state of washington the state of washington has a statute rcw. which may supersede the franchise documents in your relationship with the franchisor including the areas of termination and renewal of your franchise. there may also be court decisions which may supersede the franchise documents in your relationship with the franchisor including the areas of termination and renewal of your franchise. if any provisions governing termination or non renewal disclosed herein are inconsistent with washington law then washington law shall apply. the applicable law reads as follows section. without limiting the other provisions of this chapter the following specific rights and prohibitions shall govern the relation between the franchisor or subfranchisor and the franchisees for the purpose of this chapter and without limiting its general application it shall be an unfair or deceptive act or practice or an unfair method of competition and therefore unlawful and violation of this chapter for any person to a restrict or inhibit the right of the franchisees to join an association of franchisees. require a franchisee to purchase or lease goods or services of the franchisor or from approved sources of supply unless and to the extent that the franchisor satisfies the burden of proving that such restrictive purchasing agreements are reasonably necessary for a lawful purpose justified on business grounds and do not substantially affect competition provided that this provision shall not apply to the initial inventory of the franchise. in determining whether a requirement to purchase or lease goods or services constitutes an unfair or deceptive act or practice or an unfair method of competition the courts shall be guided by the decisions of the courts of the united states interpreting and applying the anti trust laws of the united states. discriminate between franchisees in the charges offered or made for royalties goods services equipment rentals advertising services or in any other business dealing unless and to the extent that the franchisor satisfies the burden of proving that any classification of or discrimination between franchisees is i reasonable ii based on franchises granted at materially different times and such discrimination is reasonably related to such difference in time or is based on other proper and justifiable distinctions considering the purposes of this chapter and iii is not arbitrary. however nothing in of this subsection precludes negotiation of the terms and conditions of a franchise at the initiative of the franchisees. sell rent or offer to sell to a franchisee any product or service for more than a fair and reasonable price. obtain money goods services anything of value or any other benefit from any other person with whom the franchisee does business on account of such business unless such benefit is disclosed to the franchisee. if the franchise provides that the franchisee has an exclusive territory which exclusive territory shall be specified in the franchise agreement for the franchisor or subfranchisor store document to compete with the franchisee in an exclusive territory or to grant competitive franchises in the exclusive territory area previously granted to another franchisee. require franchisee to assent to a release assignment novation or waiver which would relieve any person from liability imposed by this chapter except as otherwise permitted by rcw. impose on a franchisee by contract rule or regulation whether written or oral any standard of conduct unless the person so doing can sustain the burden of proving such to be reasonable and necessary. i refuse to renew a franchise agreement without fairly compensating the franchisee for the fair market value at the time of expiration of the franchise agreement or the franchisee inventory supplies equipment and furnishings purchased from the franchisor and good will exclusive of personalized materials which have no value to the franchisor and inventory supplies equipment and furnishings not reasonably required in the conduct of the franchised business provided that compensation need not be made to a franchisee for good will if i the franchisee has been given one year notice of nonrenewal and ii the franchisor agrees in writing not to enforce any covenant which restrains the franchisee from competing with the franchisor provided further that a franchisor may offset against amounts owed to a franchisee under this subsection any amounts owed by such franchisee to franchisor. terminate a franchise prior to the expiration of its term except for good cause. good cause shall include without limitation the failure of the franchisee to comply with lawful material provisions of the franchise or other agreement between the franchisor and the franchisee and to cure such default after being given written notice thereof and a reasonable opportunity which in no event need be more than thirty days to cure such default or if such default cannot reasonably be cured within thirty days the failure of the franchisee to initiate within thirty days substantial and continuing action to cure such default provided that after three willful and material breaches of the same term of the franchise agreement occurring within a twelve month period for which the franchisee has been given notice and an opportunity to cure as provided in this subsection the franchisor may terminate the franchise agreement upon any subsequent month period without providing notice or opportunity cure provided further that a franchisor may terminate a franchise agreement without prior notice or opportunity to cure a default if the franchisee i is adjudicated bankrupt or insolvent ii makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors or similar disposition of the assets of the franchised business iii voluntarily abandons the franchised business or iv is convicted of or pleads guilty or no contest to a charge of violating any law relating to the franchised business. upon termination for good cause the franchisor shall purchase from the franchisee at a fair market value at the time of termination the franchisee inventory and supplies exclusive of i personalized materials which have no value to the franchisor ii inventory and supplies not reasonably required in the conduct of the franchised business and iii if the franchisee is to retain control of the premises of the franchised business any inventory and supplies not purchased from the franchisor or on his express requirement provided that a franchisor may offset against amounts owed to a franchisee under this subsection any amounts owed by such franchisee to the franchisor. no statement questionnaire or acknowledgment signed or agreed to by a franchisee in connection with the commencement of the franchise relationship shall have the effect of i waiving any claims under any applicable state franchise law including fraud in the inducement or ii disclaiming reliance on any statement made by any franchisor franchise seller or other person acting on behalf of the franchisor. this provision supersedes any other term of any document executed in connection with the franchise. http app.leg.wa.gov rcw default.aspx?cite. store document in any arbitration involving a franchise purchased in washington the arbitration site shall be either in the state of washington or in a place mutually agreed upon at the time of the arbitration or as determined by the arbitrator. in the event of a conflict of laws the provisions of the washington franchise investment protection act chapter. rcw shall prevail. release or waiver of rights executed by a franchisee shall not include rights under the washington franchise investment protection act except when executed pursuant to a negotiated settlement after the agreement is in effect and where the parties are represented by independent counsel. provisions such as those which unreasonably restrict or limit the statute of limitations period for claims under the act or rights or remedies under the act such as a right to a jury trial may not be enforceable. transfer fees are collectable to the extent that they reflect the franchisor reasonable estimated or actual costs in effecting a transfer. each provision of this addendum to franchise documents shall be effective only to the extent that the jurisdictional requirements of the washington law applicable to the provision are met independent of this addendum. this addendum to franchise documents shall have no force or effect if such jurisdictional requirements are not met. except as set forth in this addendum to franchise documents the terms and provisions of the franchise documents shall remain in full force and effect. in witness whereof each party hereto by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind his or her respective party without further consent or approval of any kind have duly executed and delivered this addendum to the franchise documents on. franchisor kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company by name title franchisee by name title by name title store document sublessor a by name title store document addendum to franchise documents for the state of wisconsin this addendum to franchise documents for the state of wisconsin addendum dated addendum effective date to the franchise agreement as amended consent to transfer and release agreement general release promissory note and security agreement sublease each dated and including any and all exhibits attached thereto individually and collectively franchise documents between franchisee and kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company franchisor and leasing entity a sublessor hereby amends the franchise documents by the addition of the following language which shall be considered an integral part of the agreement. to the extent this addendum contains terms and conditions that differ from those contained in the franchise documents this addendum shall control. the parties agree that a concept or principle covered in this addendum shall apply and be incorporated into all other provisions of the franchise documents in which the concept or principle is also applicable notwithstanding the absence of any specific cross reference thereto. all capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this addendum will have the same meanings ascribed to such terms in the franchise documents. wisconsin law modifications. the securities commissioner of the state of wisconsin requires that certain provisions contained in franchise documents be amended to be consistent with wisconsin fair dealership law wisconsin statutes chapter fair dealership law and the wisconsin franchise investment law chapter. to the extent that the agreement contains provisions that are inconsistent with the following such provisions are hereby amended a the wisconsin fair dealership law among other things grants you the right in most circumstances to days prior written notice of non renewal and days within which to remedy any claimed deficiencies. if the franchise agreement contains a provision that is inconsistent with the wisconsin fair dealership law the provisions of the agreement shall be superseded by the law requirements and shall have no force or effect. the wisconsin fair dealership law among other things grants you the right in most circumstances to days prior written notice of termination and days within which to remedy any claimed deficiencies. if the franchise agreement contains a provision that is inconsistent with the wisconsin fair dealership law the provisions of the agreement shall be superseded by the law requirements and shall have no force or effect. if the franchise documents require that they be governed by a state law other than the state of wisconsin to the extent that any provision of the franchise documents conflicts with the wisconsin fair dealership law such provision shall be superseded by the law requirements. any condition stipulation or provision in the franchise documents requiring franchisee to waive compliance with any provision under the wisconsin franchise investment law may be void. store document no statement questionnaire or acknowledgment signed or agreed to by a franchisee in connection with the commencement of the franchise relationship shall have the effect of i waiving any claims under any applicable state franchise law including fraud in the inducement or ii disclaiming reliance on any statement made by any franchisor franchise seller or other person acting on behalf of the franchisor. this provision supersedes any other term of any document executed in connection with the franchise. each provision of this addendum shall be effective only to the extent that the jurisdictional requirements of the wisconsin law applicable to the provision are met independent of this addendum. this addendum shall have no force or effect if such jurisdictional requirements are not met. except as set forth in this addendum the terms and provisions of the franchise documents shall remain in full force and effect. in witness whereof each party hereto by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind his or her respective party without further consent or approval of any kind have duly executed and delivered this addendum as of the addendum effective date. franchisor kahala franchising. an arizona limited liability company by name title franchisee by name title by name title sublessor a by name title exhibit to the franchise disclosure document table of contents confidential operations manual cold stone creamery operations manual. kahala franchising llc. this communication communication means all information associated with this document contains confidential information intended only for cold stone creamery franchise owners. kahala franchising llc is the owner or licensee of all rights title and interest in the content of this communication. this communication may not be reproduced in whole or in part. any unintended recipient is prohibited from reading disseminating reproducing or distributing the information contained in this communication. the trademarks referenced in this communication are the property of their respective owners. table of contents operations manual a introduction. products. approved menu. batch product. mix ins. creations. waffles other cone products. beverages. sundaes. lobby freezer products food kitchen safety. product handling. contamination cross contamination. personal hygiene. preventing accidents injuries cold stone creamery operations manual table of contents. compliance. quality assurance visits compliance. other compliance issues. other requirements customer service. philosophy process. guests with dietary restrictions. customer feedback. customer service by cold stone creamery station crisis. store actions in an emergency. crisis management from corporate. food contamination illness emergencies. security emergencies. environmental emergencies. natural disasters. chemical toxic accidents exhibit to the franchise disclosure document list of franchise owners cold stone creamery franchise list as of november the name of the franchisee store address and telephone numbers of the stores are listed below franchise company owners address city state zip phone chugach creamery incorporated catharine persinger gregory persinger parks highway wasilla alaska chugach creamery incorporated gregory persinger catharine persinger business boulevard eagle river alaska kh corporation kim hwang kevin hwang industry way anchorage alaska kevin hwang kim hwang northern lights boulevard anchorage alaska chugach creamery incorporated catharine persinger gregory persinger old steese highway fairbanks alaska manner incorporated bushra elsayed hisham zeinelabdin carl jones drive south-east huntsville alabama four star creamery llc dana depew gadsden highway trussville alabama mpm company. phillip kitchens marsha kitchens montgomery highway dothan alabama sweet dreams incorporated mauricio aguilar chenal parkway little rock arkansas arkansas hearts ice cream llc melody meersman michael meersman market street rogers arkansas arkansas hearts ice cream llc michael meersman melody meersman joyce boulevard fayetteville arkansas sweet dreams incorporated mauricio aguilar oak street suite conway arkansas positive plus llc rupesh patel chandravadan patel shailja patel mcclintock drive tempe arizona wild spirit ice cream university llc john.daniel dawn.da niel speedway boulevard tucson arizona anya llc jigar saraiya rina saraiya bell road peoria arizona kavish investments llc jinal parikh palak parikh jigar saraiya camelback road phoenix arizona desserts llc jessica ritchie tatum boulevard phoenix arizona ice realms llc rick miller scarlett miller ray road chandler arizona columba essay llc thomas kim happy valley road phoenix arizona chaudhry. sameera chaudhry humayun chaudhry bell road phoenix arizona lowers arizona creameries llc jon lowers douglas lowers kimberly lowers power road mesa arizona tasty treats llc rupesh patel nayan patel alma school road chandler arizona chaudhry. humayun chaudhry sameera chaudhry litchfield road goodyear arizona wild spirit ice cream old spanish trail llc dawn.daniel john.da niel north dakota street tucson arizona rare cone creamery. somasekhara soma yarrapureddy indrava thi nallapareddy stapley drive mesa arizona willis willis investments incorporated fred willis donna willis tatum boulevard phoenix arizona willis willis investments incorporated fred willis donna willis mcdowell road avondale arizona cs core. chung keun kang angela kyung sook kang road street phoenix arizona ve enterprises llc indravathi nallapareddy alekhya reddy suma yarrapureddy somase khara soma yarrapureddy indrava thi nallapareddy alekhya reddy suma yarrapureddy somase khara soma yarrapureddy peoria avenue phoenix arizona enterprises. somasekhara soma yarrapureddy indrava thi nallapareddy frank lloyd wright boulevard scottsdale arizona radha krishna llc harsh patel trushna patel baseline road phoenix arizona b distributing incorporated brett schoenhardt patricia schoenhardt power road mesa arizona cscr corporation rochan goswami rochan goswami milton road flagstaff arizona tasty treats llc rupesh patel nayan patel germann road chandler arizona kolnick laura laura kolnick power road queen creek arizona radha krishna llc harsh patel trushna patel th avenue glendale arizona desert sun creamery llc kevin stanhope. lea stanhope palms parkway yuma arizona osborne ventures llc pamela osborne jeff osborne state route a sedona arizona wild spirit ice cream tanque verde llc dawn.daniel john.da niel tanque verde road tucson arizona canyon son llc bill egler gwen mccourt egler bill egler gwen mccourt egler westgate boulevard glendale arizona osborne ventures llc jeff osborne pamela osborne happy valley road peoria arizona arizona ice cream company incorporated rodney lands north arizona suite sierra vista arizona arizona ice cream company incorporated rodney lands calle santa cruz tucson arizona arizona ice cream company incorporated rodney lands wetmore road tucson arizona finest creamery llc angel carlo timothy guerra signal butte road mesa arizona willis willis investments incorporated donna willis fred willis rio salado parkway tempe arizona megha group llc jay megha purvi megha highway bullhead city arizona lowers arizona creameries llc douglas lowers kimberly lowers jon lowers baseline road gilbert arizona wild spirit ice cream broadway llc dawn.daniel john.da niel broadway boulevard tucson arizona willis willis investments incorporated fred willis donna willis litchfield road surprise arizona foods llc jennifer leon east williams field road suite gilbert arizona sweet cream of sherman oaks incorporated faramarz talehakimi haleh roshan kashani ventura boulevard sherman oaks california global incorporated curtis chang margaret chang johnson drive ventura california moon river pacific incorporated young park sun park edward park calle real goleta california idyllic eateries llc michael conboy amy conboy el cajon boulevard san diego california martin corey and hari demissie martin corey martin hari demissie martin clairemont drive san diego california smita parida incorporated smita parida pomerado road poway california creamery incorporated alan arabo renae arabo jamacha road el cajon california yms enterprise incorporated yooseok kim carlsbad boulevard carlsbad california reyes international enterprises incorporated alberto reyes hernandez street chula vista california tang kia kia tang el camino real sunnyvale california feist family enterprises llc william feist jeannette feist palm canyon drive palm springs california rayn drzr corporation dilawar khan rabia khan dublin boulevard dublin california sajj enterprises incorporated stephen johnson xiao hua aisha johnson sycamore valley road danville california jera investments incorporated esther wong joe lin mission avenue oceanside california mesa creations llc gaurav sharma roohi sharma grossmont center drive louisiana mesa california jera investments incorporated esther wong joe lin san marcos boulevard san marcos california alvarez international incorporated luis alvarez elizabeth perez main street alhambra california coburn steven steve coburn crescent drive pleasant hill california aag enterprises llc ahsan qazi nawazish qazi ahsan qazi junior winchester road temecula california santa barbara dreams llc edward colton susan colton state street santa barbara california ice star foods llc gulizar yildiz olive avenue huntington beach california icwon corporation john chung teresa chung culver drive irvine california smita parida incorporated smita parida westview parkway san diego california benevedes incorporated annette benevedes palm avenue fresno california holding corporation asad jalil muhammad wadood muhammad haque plummer street northridge california chengli corporation cathryn cheng guowei zhang kevin lei wendy li great mall drive milpitas california maestro choco llc yassine harbaoui wafa rebaaoui el paseo rancho santa margarita california humphrey reanesey enterprises incorporated reangsey kok mom kok franklin hok whittier boulevard louisiana habra california aujla ventures llc kevin aujla junipero serra boulevard daly city california business house of moeens incorporated moeen ul haq ayesha moeen palm avenue burbank california randhawa sandeep sandeep randhawa galleria boulevard roseville california sood delights llc manish sood kavita sood bidwell street folsom california mjv investments incorporated jodi vettese mark vettese highway palm desert california khusmehr incorporated prabhdeep mann ramneek singh woodcreek oaks boulevard roseville california ferrell charles jeanne jeanne ferrell charles ferrell deceased san diego avenue san diego california hephaistos investments incorporated junfang sun chi chen cindy lu joseph xie fremont hub fremont california mix joy incorporated tae soon lee jung hyun lee spectrum center drive irvine california idyllic eateries llc michael conboy amy conboy fenton parkway san diego california team mohsin ice creams incorporated siddiqa mohsin muhammad mohsin shafi mcbean parkway santa clarita california scoop this! llc charlene stueve jerry stueve junior rosedale highway bakersfield california csc pelandale enterprise sandeep hans pelandale avenue modesto california spectra hospitality group daniel ortiz carolina leticia barba ortiz culver boulevard culver city california khusmehr incorporated prabhdeep mann ramneek singh benjamin holt drive stockton california dbgk llc gulce kabakci zerrin baran warner avenue huntington beach california dugum ramzi ramzi dugum soledad canyon road santa clarita california benevedes incorporated annette benevedes blackstone avenue fresno california benevedes incorporated annette benevedes herndon avenue clovis california nk kashif mirza main street merced california benevedes incorporated annette benevedes mooney boulevard visalia california brothers enterprises llc ramneek singh prabhdeep mann elm street lodi california platinum enterprises incorporated duane costa monte vista avenue turlock california street infinity enterprise sandeep hans mchenry avenue modesto california cooler west enterprise karen petrosyan raymond zargaryan main street seal beach california pkd raj associates incorporated punita shah ajay shah street street coronado california reyes international enterprises incorporated alberto reyes hernandez otay lakes road chula vista california lkc enterprises incorporated lawrence cassel krista cassel aliso creek road aliso viejo california king kone herx incorporated jorge nava angelica hernandez bradley road orcutt california rdl capital incorporated ron. lee aquarium way long beach california shahalemi karima zakialla rahimi karima shahalemi zakialla rahimi temecula parkway temecula california roogee llc gaurav sharma roohi sharma main street vista california kamizak incorporated maureen kaczmarski john kaczmarski madison avenue murrieta california kb zak incorporated stacy gierczak rick gierczak mission gorge road santee california enterprises incorporated rajwinder singh court street san rafael california sugar bears llc li yang xiao nathan liu south street cerritos california sgq incorporated shan qadeer syed qadeer th street lancaster california cool creamery petaluma incorporated boo kay chan gui mei cheng mcdowell boulevard petaluma california csc del monte llc charles lin eun chan jacob park del monte center monterey california venkatesan shyamsundar thotta srivani shyamsundar venkatesan srivani thotta northridge mall salinas california sra venture corporation saira rizwan syed rizwan market plural san ramon california scoop this! llc charlene stueve jerry stueve junior ming avenue bakersfield california jnk investments incorporated james mitchell karen mitchell dana drive redding california ssr enterprises sandeep randhawa navneet randhawa stockton boulevard elk grove california coldscoop carson llc hamdi harbaoui sepulveda carson california boulevard khusmehr incorporated prabhdeep mann ramneek singh west th street tracy california ahluwalia ranjit ranjit ahluwalia dale road modesto california national investment llc. lan vo lap nguyen katella avenue los alamitos california document mccreamy incorporated mineralogy wang vincent chao peyton drive chino hills california spstone corporation so young yoon western avenue san pedro california sinful mooo incorporated vincent chao mineralogy wang candlewood street lakewood california megha investments llc purvi megha jay megha orangefair mall fullerton california megha investments llc jay megha purvi megha louisiana palma avenue anaheim hills california daisy ice cream bar incorporated luz maria contreras noel chairez contreras mountain avenue ontario california ice creamery incorporated lory axtman lacey bilbruck west rancho vista boulevard palmdale california rishtaa incorporated neha patel niraj patel vine street el dorado hills california all profit enterprises llc wesley kim mainstreet rancho cucamonga california ghumman umar umar ghumman elk grove boulevard elk grove california chabi incorporated farhan choudhery uzma choudhery las positas road livermore california dhillon corporation sonu dhillon jasvinder kaur street oakdale california csc riverbank enterprise sandeep hans claribel road riverbank california shree balaji foods incorporated mukesh kumar rishabh singh rivermark plaza santa clara california ghayoor incorporated aisha imtiaz ghayoor ghumman fitzgerald drive pinole california ghayoor incorporated ghayoor ghumman aisha imtiaz plaza drive vallejo california afk ventures incorporated muhammad haque asad jalil muhammad wadood a moorpark road thousand oaks california chricol incorporated chris barwick colette hill arrow highway san dimas california zaman mohd sultana sultana zaman mohad zaman magnolia avenue riverside california roth incorporated steven weightman cynthia. roth atlantic avenue long beach california cc ventures llc john evans heavenly village way south lake tahoe california coldscoop garden grove llc hamdi harbaoui chapman avenue garden grove california cscdn corporation terry kim minyoung lee lakewood boulevard downey california enterprises incorporated rajwinder singh gateway boulevard fairfield california kido investments incorporated ara kizirian grand avenue el segundo california cho hahn corporation kyung chohahn hahn cho byung cho tapo canyon road simi valley california abelian rafik rafik abelian pacific avenue santa cruz california skr investment incorporated balwinder singh harpreet singh raghvir singh mission boulevard hayward california gill devinder and brar ramanjit ramanjit brar devinder gill iris avenue moreno valley california sripada incorporated srivani thotta shyamsundar venkatesan san antonio road mountain view california lim dennis rona rona lim dennis lim harbison drive vacaville california dakota south dakota a oswal enterprises llc sapna oswal arvind oswal trautwein road riverside california coldscoop west hills llc hamdi harbaoui meriam harbaoui vanowen street west hills california feng christine and xue yi christine feng xue yi feng rohnert park expressway rohnert park california aag enterprises llc ahsan qazi nawazish qazi ahsan qazi junior azusa avenue covina california alchehayed mansour andy anderiana andy alchehayed mansour alchehayed anderiana alchehayed university parkway san bernardino california zulki corporation zulqarnain isaac muhammad brea mall brea california dbgk llc gulce kabakci zerrin baran christy street fremont california nasser nader nader nasser riverside plaza drive riverside california jera investments incorporated esther wong joe lin frazee road oceanside california new americana incorporated sergio marmolejo gabriela paniagua whittier boulevard pico rivera california rcjm teamworks incorporated yaquelinda martin juliana martin eastern avenue bell gardens california raj associates ajay shah punita shah truxtun road san diego california feist family enterprises llc william feist jeannette feist palm canyon drive palm springs california humphrey reanesey enterprises incorporated reangsey kok mom kok franklin hok pacific coast highway lomita california cold scoop torrance llc hamdi harbaoui hawthorne boulevard torrance california sherry maria marketing incorporated mary.khalil mounir.ab el saiad grand avenue walnut california mj global incorporated myoung jong limonite avenue mira loma california rabeh associates incorporated atef ben rabeh tuscany street corona california good arz llc nouri abtahi motameni aazam abtahi nosrat abtahi fatemeh abtahi lugonia avenue redlands california talen incorporated michael talen carole talen th street paso robles california alexandria llc moustafa elsayed omnia elzeny rosecrans avenue louisiana mirada california hamdi harbaoui hamdi harbaoui saticoy street van nuys california chengli corporation wendy li kevin lei guowei zhang cathryn cheng el camino real san bruno california benevedes incorporated annette benevedes campus pointe drive fresno california feist family enterprises llc jeannette feist william feist highway louisiana quinta california pun melvin and doris pun melvin pun doris pun north dakota avenue san mateo california benevedes incorporated annette benevedes th avenue hanford california creamery heaven incorporated mandeep mike takhar baldev singh summit avenue fontana california bella ice cream llc blanca sanchez melissa martinez foothill boulevard upland california ch corporation joon young kim th street oxnard california aq incorporated kelley bader mission boulevard san diego california dove investments llc arturo vidaurri ignacio haddad alicia parkway mission viejo california demissie martin hari hari demissie martin center drive san marcos california nesos incorporated murat solmaz arda sari prospect street louisiana jolla california mira kh incorporated rachid ayachi amira ayachi pico boulevard los angeles california stata llc rohit patel maheshkumar patel rohit patel maheshkumar patel florida avenue hemet california srika incorporated shyamsundar venkatesan srivani thotta santa cruz avenue menlo park california gierczak investments incorporated stacy gierczak rick gierczak saturn boulevard imperial beach california hsu james james hsu natomas boulevard sacramento california anasandzeest llc sharjeel chaudhry mobeela chaudhry cook street palm desert california coldscoop north hills llc hamdi harbaoui meriam harbaoui sepulveda boulevard north hills california scoop this! llc jerry stueve junior charlene stueve mount vernon avenue bakersfield california global incorporated curtis chang century boulevard inglewood california takeg enterprises incorporated trudy. grabenauer kenneth grabenauer mendocino avenue santa rosa california esas llc mansoor shaikh maddiha payami lone tree way antioch california lani kalima enterprise incorporated catherine nittayo brian nittayo carol nittayo rosemead boulevard rosemead california maresp corporation marlan cooper esperanza ochoa figueroa street los angeles california balch family ice cream incorporated allison iskenderian brian balch cara frazer christopher balch william balch avenue palmdale california patel maheshkumar and bharat bharat patel maheshkumar patel benton road winchester california french sun llc mehdi pourhassan ebrahim pourhassan wilshire boulevard santa monica california spectra hospitality group daniel ortiz carolina leticia barba ortiz washington boulevard marina del rey california nice creams incorporated yolanda castro imperial avenue el centro california qare saliba saliba qare linda march shopping center pacifica california cool creation incorporated anthony wong boo kay chan gui mei cheng courthouse drive union city california cooler incorporated karen petrosyan coast drive costa mesa california deliceous cream llc sateesh nivarthi mukundamal a tangirala newpark mall newark california scalzo hospitality incorporated carmen baird grace lindsay patricia durand patrick durand harbor boulevard anaheim california artur hunanyan and tereza oganesyan tereza oganesyan artur hunanyan hollywood boulevard hollywood california murali ramanathan murali ramanathan murali ramanathan sunrise boulevard citrus heights california kanoni family incorporated mustafa ali idris ali florence avenue walnut park california mira kh incorporated amira ayachi rachid ayachi myrtle avenue monrovia california jera investments incorporated joe lin esther wong valley parkway escondido california leeshin incorporated daniel won lee tustin street orange california rafiu incorporated figen incesu bora incesu louisiana palma avenue buena park california rafiu incorporated figen incesu bora incesu brookhurst street fountain valley california megha investments llc purvi megha jay megha callagan highway san diego california solutions incorporated ahmad zia noor zia hawthorne boulevard torrance california khusmehr incorporated prabhdeep mann ramneek singh yosemite avenue manteca california meri maa investment group llc ansheel.raj sharon. aj town center plaza west sacramento california benevedes incorporated annette benevedes jeffery.be nevedes family trust riverside drive fresno california diaz criselda criselda diaz arden way sacramento california srarj incorporated ritesh.patel monica. atel north schnoor suite madera california aar venture llc syed rizwan saira rizwan bernal avenue suite pleasanton california california desert business investments llc sarah.aziz arshad abid usman aziz adobe road twentynine palms california diaz criselda criselda diaz stevens creek boulevard santa clara california cheeny mama llc jonaid.khan ijaz khan morongo trail banning california new york ilyas khan faisal saeed cherry valley boulevard calimesa california scoop this! llc jerry stueve junior charlene stueve. balboa boulevard newport beach california niagara investments company. jeraldine fitzgerald mike fitzgerald thomas fitzgerald yosemite street lone tree colorado ohana enterprises incorporated allison wadsworth henderson jeff wadsworth julie kirkland colfax avenue lakewood colorado backyard breeze incorporated karen weldon alan weldon lincoln avenue parker colorado sweet investments incorporated gene bergmeier brandy bergmeier cinema part colorado springs colorado rok springs incorporated lynn kozeliski steve kozeliski academy boulevard colorado springs colorado triple management llc jeffrey schifano bowles avenue littleton colorado four scoops enterprises incorporated randall helm sandra helm miranda hunter harmony road fort collins colorado om management incorporated anjali sarwal alok sarwal cedar avenue aurora colorado backyard breeze incorporated alan weldon karen weldon cornerstar way aurora colorado you scream llc kelli turner jeremy petey helm wadsworth bypass arvada colorado kpog incorporated kelli turner jeremy petey helm south hover street longmont colorado triple management llc jeffrey schifano alameda avenue lakewood colorado lord properties incorporated natalie lord centerplace drive greeley colorado rehoboth llc mesfin alemu yemeserach ketema th plural denver colorado om iv management incorporated alok sarwal anjali sarwal buckley road aurora colorado smith creamery incorporated dustin smith linda smith highway and grand junction colorado jat creamery incorporated randy adolf freeway road pueblo colorado coral bells hospitality ariel noreen joshua noreen metzler drive castle rock colorado colorado cold treats incorporated joshua noreen ariel noreen dorchester street highlands ranch colorado scream llc jeremy petey helm kelli turner town center drive westminster colorado om ii management incorporated anjali sarwal alok sarwal hampden avenue denver colorado rehoboth llc yemeserach ketema mesfin alemu th avenue arvada colorado ssj enterprises corporation steve selenke prospect avenue aurora colorado sweet success incorporated lorie haun john haun th avenue thornton colorado two daughters ice cream llc brandon england brittney england main avenue durango colorado maas llc casey maas dustin maas justice center road canon city colorado jc incorporated joseph gardner carolin gardner pavilions plural brighton colorado kpog incorporated kelli turner jeremy petey helm arapahoe avenue boulder colorado rehoboth llc mesfin alemu yemeserach ketema northfield boulevard denver colorado three pair llc trey bruschke th street montrose colorado oospecka llc larry yarbrough jeremy yarbrough south sligo street cortez colorado lue enterprises llc joseph luethmers andrea luethmers eagle drive loveland colorado lue enterprises llc joseph luethmers andrea luethmers elizabeth street fort collins colorado om iii management incorporated anjali sarwal alok sarwal tower road denver colorado all in one llc patrick smith junior patrick smith glenwood road clinton court chahal incorporated muhammad ismail high ridge road stamford court all in one llc patrick smith patrick smith junior hartford turnpike waterford court chahal incorporated muhammad ismail black rock turnpike fairfield court creamery llc usman syed tehmina syed backus avenue danbury court kh corporation nirav gandhi purvi gandhi boston post road orange court all in one llc patrick smith patrick smith junior broad street meriden court sweet treats corporation olatunji.umaru half street south-east washington district of columbia costaguys llc sireesh.chigurupati agadeep tatineni naga.sai anil kumar veeramachaneni connecticut avenue north-west unit a washington district of columbia group incorporated haythum issa pulaski highway newark delaware dover investments incorporated mohamed elghandour dupont highway dover delaware shivstone incorporated neeru chaudhari dhairya chaudhari newberry road gainesville floruit drive ice llc ahmed elsehimy kirkman road orlando floruit toledano trade llc yael halimi daniel toledano forest hill boulevard wellington floruit manuscripts associates llc muhammad sikandar shezan sikandar dixie highway miami floruit spiegel investment plural company frederick spiegel queila spiegel ruth spiegel stephen spiegel nob hill road plantation floruit jkci valrico corporation kelly cook joshua cook atlantic avenue daytona beach floruit ic naples incorporated terri gravett anthony gravett collier boulevard marco island floruit aarav creamery incorporated hitesh barvaliya naples boulevard naples floruit partners llc yael halimi daniel toledano sheridan street davie floruit shivstone incorporated neeru chaudhari dhairya chaudhari south-west archer road gainesville floruit hassan tahira tahira hassan south-east th street fort lauderdale floruit spiegel investment company ruth spiegel frederick spiegel royal palm boulevard coral springs floruit dragon house llc jennifer dragovich michael dragovich geraldine dragovich congress avenue boynton beach floruit jkci valrico corporation kelly cook joshua cook lithia pinecrest road valrico floruit dw operations llc daniel wegweiser badlands drive brandon floruit ice cream srq llc sam stinehelfer jeanna stinehelfer main street sarasota floruit insei incorporated edwin woon weston road weston floruit the creamery of lake mary incorporated hojin bryant kang charlie kang colonial grand lane lake mary floruit spiegel investment cc company stephen spiegel ruth spiegel frederick spiegel queila spiegel lyons road coconut creek floruit bawa preeti incorporated tejinder singh amanpreet singh tamiami trail fort myers floruit satyawati incorporated tejinder singh santa barbara boulevard cape coral floruit meyer franchises llc julie hurstfield meyer hollywood boulevard hollywood floruit tropical scoops incorporated dawn lopez ralph lopez adriana campa lopez south-west th avenue miramar floruit partners llc daniel toledano yael halimi stirling road cooper city floruit nazneen llc masudali saiyed subhasis misra town center drive lakeland floor creamery llc stanley wright mildred wright neptune street tampa floruit ice cream brd llc sam stinehelfer jeanna stinehelfer cortez road bradenton floor creamery llc mildred wright stanley wright fowler avenue tampa floruit viera creamery incorporated susan kellett bernard kellett town center avenue viera floruit seaside creamery llc kathryn durham richard beaudoin th avenue indialantic floruit creamery incorporated george koukourinis lucy perez koukourinis south-west th street miami floruit old cutler creamery llc minali patel rajan patel old cutler road cutler bay floruit talya and alp llc serkan uyan ebru uyan biscayne boulevard aventura floruit gaboozo llc. daniel toledano miryam toledano coral ridge drive coral springs floruit spiegel investment mill company frederick spiegel stephen spiegel ruth spiegel queila spiegel main street miami lakes floruit nazneen llc masudali saiyed subhasis misra preserve walk lane tampa floruit dhc ventures llc joshua davis amber davis sadler road fernandina beach floruit dattani hasmukh and biren dattani hasmukh dattani biren dattani south-west college road ocala floruit andreams corporation andrea kashtan us highway palm harbor floruit jkci valrico corporation joshua cook kelly cook tennessee street tallahassee floruit spiegel investment ps company frederick spiegel stephen spiegel queila spiegel ruth spiegel federal highway pompano beach floruit diverse ventures of miami llc minali patel rajan patel south-west th street miami floruit silver scoops incorporated ralph lopez adriana campa lopez dawn lopez miramar parkway miramar floruit sundae pleasure llc sonia amber william buttler north-west federal highway jensen beach floruit gmkbd incorporated divyesh shah binaben shah south-east federal highway stuart floruit ghp of florida llc hitesh barvaliya gulf center drive fort myers floruit dattani hasmukh and biren dattani biren dattani hasmukh dattani daniels road winter garden floruit kendall creamery llc rajan patel south-west th street miami floruit dragon house llc jennifer dragovich michael dragovich geraldine dragovich lantana road lake worth floruit archtowne llc tom archbold sheila archbold us highway pinellas park floruit dhc ventures llc joshua davis amber davis southside boulevard jacksonville floruit kandhy creamery incorporated natasha kalipersaud tanisha kalipersaud tanisha kalipersaud semoran boulevard orlando floor creamery ii llc mildred wright stanley wright anderson road tampa floruit cold creations llc conrad hauca state road new port richey floruit andam incorporated andrea kashtan main street safety harbor floruit mkn largo incorporated ricardo.nadal bay drive belleair bluffs floruit jkci valrico corporation joshua cook kelly cook williamson boulevard port orange floruit dattani hasmukh and biren dattani hasmukh dattani biren dattani altamonte drive altamonte springs floruit innerwealth group incorporated jerson daganzo university boulevard orlando floruit blue ice cream incorporated angela kim sara kim village park drive orlando floruit rasaus llc adnan sultan nautica drive jacksonville floruit blue ice cream incorporated angela kim sara kim blake boulevard kissimmee floruit host international incorporated jennifer ritenour airport boulevard orlando floruit dattani creamery incorporated vijay.dattani international drive orlando floruit dattani sarasota incorporated vijay.dattani university town center drive sarasota floruit dattani creamery incorporated vijay.dattani margaritaville boulevard kissimmee floruit doral creamery llc rajan patel north-west th avenue doral floruit rj nadal investments corporation ricardo.nadal south-west th avenue miami floruit miraculous delights llc ruben.aldridge carla. aldridge beach boulevard jacksonville floruit jkci valrico corporation kelly cook joshua cook highway riverview floruit dhc ventures llc joshua davis amber davis homegrown way yulee floruit csc fmbeach llc mitul chothani hitesh barvaliya nikunj patel th street fort myers beach floruit keshavjivans cold serves and desserts llc divyan patel tuscan way street augustine floruit keshavjivans cold serves and desserts llc divyan patel race track road fruit cove floruit millimeter kash incorporated andrea kashtan th street seminole floruit chinonso corporation confidence.ekeanyan wu kenechukwu.okor ocoee apopka road ocoee floruit csc merchants crossing llc mitul chothani hitesh barvaliya nikunj patel cleveland avenue north fort myers floruit hari krishna creamery llc mitul chothani chandrakan patel nikunjkumar rabadiya dale mabry highway tampa floruit dhc ventures llc joshua davis amber davis roosevelt boulevard jacksonville floruit rs foods llc rajni sethi dharminder sethi chahat sethi sugarloaf parkway lawrenceville georgia prayom llc hemen patel sunny patel robert daniel junior parkway augusta georgia ultimate creations conyers llc terrence jenkins dogwood drive south-east conyers georgia spirit incorporated paulomi patel mitesh bhatt johnson ferry road marietta georgia nishiguru incorporated paulomi patel mitesh bhatt main street alpharetta georgia krishna delight incorporated harshaben sarvaiya radhika pallaganti medlock bridge road duluth georgia om sweets llc mukesh korat parmeshwor acharya abercorn street savannah georgia mhd barrett incorporated minesh daya cobb place lane north-west kennesaw georgia shree laabh karini incorporated monika patel chapel hill road douglasville georgia vinings creamery llc roshan patel param shah paces ferry road south-east atlanta georgia rk united llc dhimant shukla manishkumar patel watson boulevard warner robins georgia santosh son. roshan patel jimmy lee smith parkway hiram georgia ams magic stone llc mahfuza dhamaskar ashford crossing atlanta georgia ubs holdings llc terrence jenkins terrence jenkins newnan crossing bypass newnan georgia rk united llc dhimant shukla manishkumar patel vilseck road fort stewart georgia cold at morrow llc amir tejane faisal hussain jonesboro road morrow georgia maze derek derek.maze wade green road north-west kennesaw georgia sweet cream llc suleman sunny jiwani salima.jiwani anih.jiwani church street suite decatur georgia huan nguyen individual huan.nguyen mullins colony drive evans georgia ssn llc mehul.lad bipinkumar.patel ambrish.patel whittlesey boulevard columbus georgia mukesh korat and rima patel individuals rima.patel mukesh korat abercorn street fc savannah georgia restaurant llc param shah roshan patel woodstock road roswell georgia white richard dow shu yuan chen richard dow white shu yuan chen piikea avenue maui kihei hi cordes creamery incorporated kenneth cordes street avenue south-east cedar rapids iowa chicago scoops llc kyle welch jonathan shulkin thomas watkins antonio gracias wacker drive dubuque iowa jrf incorporated scott otis janet otis jordan creek parkway west des moines iowa cordes creamery incorporated kenneth cordes th avenue coralville iowa chicago scoops llc antonio gracias kyle welch jonathan shulkin thomas watkins duff avenue ames iowa chicago scoops llc kyle welch jonathan shulkin thomas watkins antonio gracias university avenue cedar falls iowa chicago scoops llc antonio gracias jonathan shulkin kyle welch thomas watkins utica ridge road davenport iowa huckleberry ice cream colorado llc gary.hoyer winegard drive burlington iowa tasty treats llc andrew.martin dawn. martin south-west main street suite ankeny iowa cordes creamery incorporated kenneth cordes adventureland drive altoona iowa ultimate scoop llc nancy lee conrad lee kentish lee eagle road meridian idaho temple group incorporated jeremiah temple kassie temple south th ammon idaho temple group incorporated jeremiah temple kassie temple yellowstone avenue pocatello idaho temple group incorporated kassie temple jeremiah temple north dakota rexburg idaho ultimate scoop llc kentish lee nancy lee conrad lee caldwell boulevard nampa idaho magic stone creamery llc kentish lee nancy lee cheney drive twin falls idaho unlimited possibilities incorporated mary. hansen james hansen old mill loop coeur alene idaho ultimate scoop llc conrad lee kentish lee nancy lee vista avenue boise idaho ultimate scoop llc nancy lee kentish lee conrad lee west state street suite boise idaho dev kush incorporated raman patel mannheim road rosemont illinois mandros corporation mitchell andros randall road lake in the hills illinois scoops sweets llc lawrena colombo david smith deer park boulevard deer park illinois sweet possibility company linda querrey jefferson avenue naperville illinois chicago scoops llc antonio gracias kyle welch jonathan shulkin thomas watkins halsted street chicago illinois alaqmar incorporated ahmed zakiuddin yusuf vajihuddin seven bridges drive woodridge illinois seatea incorporated essam abdullah th street oak lawn illinois seatea incorporated essam abdullah louisiana grange road louisiana grange illinois chicago scoops llc kyle welch jonathan shulkin thomas watkins antonio gracias marion street oak park illinois thomas restaurant investments llc johnathan thomas sherman avenue evanston illinois green stone llc issam alsharif perryville road rockford illinois family incorporated jemin lee townline road vernon hills illinois kold kreation llp udayan dave shah bela shah woodfield mall schaumburg illinois alaqmar incorporated ahmed zakiuddin yusuf vajihuddin weber road romeoville illinois sweet tooth llc joyce pecina judy pecina green mount crossing drive shiloh illinois kahala restaurants amjad makhamreh maher mike farahat veterans parkway normal illinois kahala restaurants fady abdallah alel abdallah grand prairie drive peoria illinois sweet mix parlor incorporated wesam sam abdel razek dixie highway homewood illinois sweet cream parlor incorporated wesam sam abdel razek louisiana grange road orland park illinois alaqmar incorporated ahmed zakiuddin yusuf vajihuddin brookforest avenue shorewood illinois chicago scoops llc kyle welch jonathan shulkin thomas watkins antonio gracias th street springfield illinois chicago scoops llc kyle welch jonathan shulkin thomas watkins antonio gracias troy road edwardsville illinois alaqmar incorporated ahmed zakiuddin yusuf vajihuddin th street lockport illinois cubic scoops llc ryan elwell green street champaign illinois chicago scoops llc jonathan shulkin kyle welch antonio gracias thomas watkins ohio street chicago illinois issac creamery incorporated kareem.abdallah grand avenue unit county gurnee illinois aqsa creamery incorporated samad.khan lincoln avenue chicago illinois chicago scoops llc jonathan shulkin kyle welch antonio gracias thomas watkins jefferson boulevard fort wayne in nice cream llc dan huang yan ding north dakota street indianapolis in sweet land llc chi man ko zhou hua you raceway road indianapolis in chicago scoops llc kyle welch jonathan shulkin antonio gracias thomas watkins edison road mishawaka in joy llc jing yu jianliang yu clay terrace boulevard carmel in mac month llc maclaine morris lloyd expressway evansville in benipal kulwant kulwant benipal th street indianapolis in linton grange llc hui zhang us highway greenwood in cool treats llc sheik sabir hussain state street west lafayette in jolly group valpo llc russell dewes michael jorden candace jorden silhavy road valparaiso in jolly group llc michael jorden candace jorden russell dewes west th avenue crown point in mbab bilotto incorporated michael bilotto amanda bilotto joliet street dyer in liu ben and fang qin qiu fang qin qiu ben liu harrell parkway noblesville in chen incorporated yiping chen chen qiao broad ripple avenue indianapolis in we all scream llc sheik sabir hussain veterans memorial parkway lafayette in kamilia llc eric tan kami tan jeffersonville commons drive jeffersonville in foods in the ville. robert hayes moro street manhattan kansas wessco enterprises incorporated douglas wessley rhonda wessley maize road wichita kansas federated states of micronesia drym llc mohamed salamoun village west parkway kansas city kansas mission investment company allan emerly massachusetts street lawrence kansas sonny boua baccam incorporated boua baccam santhiphone sonny baccam. th street olathe kansas wessco enterprises incorporated douglas wessley rhonda wessley rock road wichita kansas ventures llc paul houser heather houser south-west wanamaker road topeka kansas wessco enterprises incorporated douglas wessley rhonda wessley taft street wichita kansas quick pick incorporated nageeb alhaj central avenue dodge city kansas notl llc anil andy patel mahesh naik sanmukh patel levee way newport key lickety split frozen goodness llc ken sharp dixie highway crestview hills key kamilia llc kami tan eric tan. hurstbourne parkway louisville key gabs llc kuljinder khakh gayla martin balwinder singh frederica street owensboro key hamburglex csc llc bhavesh patel sir barton way lexington key scoops llc richard lentz tammy lentz jordan drive paducah key manasvi llc mahesh.gajawada main street frankfort key jai shree laxmi incorporated pravin.patel mall road lexington key kamilia llc eric tan kami tan breckenridge lane louisville key scs key llc bunnarath.mao sokun thea.chun th street murray key shri modheshwari louisiana. jagruti kamlesh modi ratnakar mody kamlesh hiralal modi boardwalk boulevard bossier city louisiana wanju gauthe wanju gauthe corporate boulevard baton rouge louisiana elmwood treats llc bush wrighton shameen wrighton eric rey bianca khoury clearview parkway elmwood louisiana cs creamery corporation mustaque ahmed bipul kumar saha mohammed ali razai akm masud hasan worcester providence turnpike millbury massachusetts hof creamery corporation akm masud hasan mustaque ahmed mohammed ali razai columbus avenue springfield massachusetts happy foods corporation khyati dave sonal khakhar turnpike road southborough massachusetts chicago scoops llc kyle welch jonathan shulkin thomas watkins antonio gracias colony place road plymouth massachusetts chicago scoops llc kyle welch jonathan shulkin thomas watkins antonio gracias wayside road burlington massachusetts chicago scoops llc jonathan shulkin kyle welch thomas watkins antonio gracias belvidere street boston massachusetts chicago scoops llc jonathan shulkin thomas watkins kyle welch antonio gracias station landing medford massachusetts sweet tooth llc meenakshi rathore ashwani rathor school street mansfield massachusetts chicago scoops llc jonathan shulkin thomas watkins antonio gracias kyle welch county faunce corner mall road dartmouth massachusetts sweet tooth llc ashwani rathor meenakshi rathore south franklin street holbrook massachusetts motiach college park llc sadda pallavi baltimore avenue college park medicinae doctor mck llc christopher blazevich kelli blazevich mark pringle main chapel way gambrills medicinae doctor sydley frederick llc anthony dayyani kingfisher drive frederick medicinae doctor sonshine creamery llc kelli blazevich christopher blazevich mark pringle arundel mills boulevard hanover medicinae doctor shreenath jabu llc aklima begum romil mehta village center drive olney medicinae doctor mvp group incorporated maruti kambhampati pravee bobbasani satyashya gaddam ritchie highway glen burnie medicinae doctor chicago scoops llc antonio gracias kyle welch jonathan shulkin thomas watkins agora drive bel air medicinae doctor gassama scoops llc sidiki gassama salisbury boulevard salisbury medicinae doctor our creamery waldorf incorporated waliul chowdhury arshad khwaja dilafoz ahmed zahir mahmud waldorf market plural waldorf medicinae doctor hongxia llc hongxia cui century boulevard germantown medicinae doctor creary partners llc andron creary lee airpark drive edgewater medicinae doctor his grace creamery llc mark pringle kelli blazevich christopher blazevich annapolis road bowie medicinae doctor chicago scoops llc kyle welch jonathan shulkin thomas watkins antonio gracias boston street baltimore medicinae doctor our creamery incorporated dilafoz ahmed waliul chowdhury zahir mahmud arshad khwaja main street gaithersburg medicinae doctor chicago scoops llc kyle welch jonathan shulkin thomas watkins antonio gracias york road cockeysville medicinae doctor hoof and paw llc tao tia xie saint paul street baltimore medicinae doctor rashid csc incorporated mohammad rashid baltimore avenue laurel medicinae doctor ventures incorporated michelle engermann ellsworth drive silver spring medicinae doctor millennium stars llc sandy cheng qingbin lin reisterstown road pikesville medicinae doctor baker enterprises llc joel. baker honeygo boulevard white marsh medicinae doctor turman investment group llc leondra turman stephen turman richards valley road ellicott city medicinae doctor security creamery llc asad.jabbar abdul.ja bbar security boulevard windsor mill medicinae doctor ps ms ventures llc srinadh chowdary.kandru sa mbasivarao bellam twin rivers road columbia medicinae doctor jingobell cakes ice creams llc jingo jingo plaza drive dunkirk medicinae doctor louisiana plata creamery llc syed saif ul islam shah numaan shah drury drive louisiana plata medicinae doctor bmyk incorporated mary michigan ok kim bong yoo hanover pike hampstead medicinae doctor dastani enterprises incorporated keikhosrow dastani campus way north lanham medicinae doctor sun touch incorporated sun.choi dulaney valley road towson medicinae doctor syed shah numaan shah individuals syed saif ul islam shah numaan shah street andrews church road california medicinae doctor udaya kadali and swapna gubbala individuals udaya.kadali swapna. gubbala clarksville pike clarksville medicinae doctor chicago scoops llc antonio gracias thomas watkins jonathan shulkin kyle welch celebration drive north-east grand rapids michigan llc michigan hun yi mac avenue east lansing michigan chicago scoops llc thomas watkins jonathan shulkin kyle welch antonio gracias century center street south-west grandville michigan djtt llc tony funderburk tiffany funderburk david carter jannica carter woodward avenue bloomfield hills michigan sweet creamery incorporated hitesh barvaliya grand river avenue farmington michigan lucas landon ice cream of commerce incorporated francis arabo muntadher arabo haggerty highway commerce township michigan second half ice cream corporation todd frerichs walton boulevard rochester hills michigan chicago scoops llc kyle welch jonathan shulkin thomas watkins antonio gracias schoenherr road shelby township michigan nilkanth creamery incorporated induben kotadiya ketan kotadiya jinal patel samir patel b washtenaw avenue annual arbor michigan hlr scoopers llc james melluish south westnedge avenue portage michigan chicago scoops llc kyle welch jonathan shulkin thomas watkins antonio gracias gratiot avenue chesterfield michigan scoops apples incorporated faizi haque narmeen haque gratiot avenue roseville michigan sweis investments llc gassab sweis monroe street detroit michigan consulting incorporated faizi haque narmeen haque john road madison heights michigan hlr scoopers llc james melluish main street kalamazoo michigan reign luxury brands llc caleb foster van dyke avenue sterling heights michigan sweis investments llc gassab sweis william sweis kercheval avenue grosse pointe michigan mauck investments llc kirk mauck independence street canton michigan the sweis group allen park llc gassab sweis william sweis outer drive allen park michigan frankie ice cream of novi incorporated muntadher arabo francis arabo mile road novi michigan maple iced delight llc meghna patel rakesh patel main street maple grove minnesota cool scoops llc bruce peltz angela peltz north dakota street street cloud minnesota vensai llc rajashekar bachigari prairie center drive eden prairie minnesota pjs creamery incorporated patty kolbo james kolbo currell boulevard woodbury minnesota yang shuxia and hong xie shuxia yang hong xie river rapids drive north-west coon rapids minnesota knep bros. incorporated doug knepper scott knepper avenue bloomington minnesota creamery llc jashil lad pinkal mistry tripti mistry warren street mankato minnesota lorven incorporated rajashekar bachigari narendar ande kumud kumar atluri cedar avenue apple valley minnesota hanuma sai llc kumud kumar atluri sirisha atluri mainstreet hopkins minnesota signature scoops llc thomas simonson caroline simonson th avenue north-east street anthony minnesota ya enterprises llc josephine opong vaughn opong vaughn quantrelle avenue north-east otsego minnesota deep roots fargo incorporated justin turnquist edgewood drive baxter minnesota cubic tomorrow llc paul mcnamee daniel stoltz amy mcnamee robin stoltz baltimore street north-east blaine minnesota like enterprises llc lisa edwards keith edwards susan drive marshall minnesota chicago scoops llc thomas watkins jonathan shulkin antonio gracias kyle welch central entrance duluth minnesota ennis enterprises llc joseph betthauser wayne ennis main street highway mendota heights minnesota chicago scoops llc kyle welch jonathan shulkin thomas watkins antonio gracias canal park drive duluth minnesota haque asif asif haque town centre drive eagan minnesota cool scoops llc bruce peltz pinecone road suite sartell minnesota knep bros. incorporated scott knepper doug knepper east broadway bloomington minnesota mjm enterprise company llc satyan bakhai north-west th plural kansas city month mjm enterprise company llc satyan bakhai jackson drive independence month ramoun llc mohamed salamoun th street kansas city month yummy delights incorporated ravinder bhatnagar new halls ferry road florissant month garrett elizabeth elizabeth garrett olive boulevard creve coeur month mj ice cream llc marcus johnson michael johnson battlefield street springfield month branson investments llc julie samford david samford country boulevard branson month sweet tooth iv llc joyce pecina judy pecina ronnies plaza street louis month branson investments llc david samford julie samford branson landing boulevard branson month yummy delights incorporated ravinder bhatnagar ronald reagan drive lake street louis month scott omer buddy omer scott wildwood drive jefferson city month on the spectrum llc robert.ryffel krista ryffel jeffco boulevard arnold month mjm enterprise company llc satyan bakhai north-east road terrace kansas city month olson ryan ryan olson main street bozeman mount gruntowicz enterprises incorporated sebrina gruntowicz daniel gruntowicz reserve street missoula mount gruntowicz enterprises incorporated daniel gruntowicz sebrina gruntowicz th street billings mount project howe llc renee howe nicole howe monty howe hutton ranch road kalispell mount gruntowicz enterprises incorporated sebrina gruntowicz daniel gruntowicz market place drive great falls mount tracks investments llc rodney shoaf sheryl shoaf highwoods boulevard greensboro north carolina rock and ricky llc ricky garcia crossroads boulevard cary north carolina tracks investments llc rodney shoaf sheryl shoaf northline avenue greensboro north carolina whitmore josie brad josie whitmore brad whitmore concord mills boulevard concord north carolina scott kehiaian enterprises incorporated abbass abbass essam abdelrhman wendover avenue greensboro north carolina rrg creamery llc ricky garcia bluefield road mooresville north carolina sns ventures llc devang shah falguni shah franklin street chapel hill north carolina mkh creamery incorporated karen harmon international drive wilmington north carolina bains llc narinder singh harvinder singh shenstone lane garner north carolina csr incorporated abbass abbass essam abdelrhman main street kernersville north carolina six dips llc loy ehlers melissa ehlers greenville boulevard south-east greenville north carolina ub ricky llc ricky garcia robert menard morganton road fayetteville north carolina acm ventures incorporated andrew martinez christie martinez mallard creek church road charlotte north carolina acm ventures incorporated andrew martinez christie martinez rivergate parkway charlotte north carolina six dips jacksonville llc loy ehlers melissa ehlers building line western boulevard jacksonville north carolina rajnishi llc bhargav parikh bhavi parikh equity drive smithfield north carolina sns ventures llc devang shah falguni shah creekside landing drive apex north carolina decadent mixes llc traci williams bradley williams faith road salisbury north carolina acm ventures incorporated andrew martinez christie martinez rea road charlotte north carolina parikh creamery llc bhavi parikh bhargav parikh poyner village parkway raleigh north carolina nitin llc suketu parikh bhavik parikh berkeley boulevard goldsboro north carolina tracks investments llc sheryl shoaf rodney shoaf hanes mall circle winston salem north carolina rock and ricky llc ricky garcia us highway aberdeen north carolina cooler south enterprises llc chad eads town square boulevard asheville north carolina creamery at the crossing llc trent reisberger erica reisberger walden lane burlington north carolina nishi llc bhargav parikh bhavi parikh alexander promenade plural raleigh north carolina csr incorporated essam abdelrhman abbass abbass john gordon lane high point north carolina rcp investments llc misty phillips rhudy phillips butner road fort bragg north carolina pk realty investments llc prakash.sridharan sa ngeetha.prakash parkside main street cary north carolina kasael llc romina.jalili yousef. alili forestville road wake forest north carolina latonia king parks latonia.parks king.pa rks footbridge lane hope mills north carolina pk realty investments llc prakash.sridharan sa ngeetha.prakash grande heights cary north carolina csc of lumberton llc harry.jhala kusum.jh ala wintergreen drive lumberton north carolina deep roots fgo incorporated justin turnquist th avenue fargo north dakota deep roots gf incorporated anthony mooney north dakota avenue grand forks north dakota raylan incorporated rhett benning century avenue bismarck north dakota the stone of minot ds incorporated troy bartsch th street southwest minot north dakota jonas and bonnita mckenzie individuals jonas.mckenzie bonni ta.mckenzie th street williston north dakota gheateam incorporated janet otis scott otis pine lake road lincoln north-east williams louisiana mode incorporated cindy williams shawn williams davenport street omaha north-east williams louisiana mode incorporated shawn williams cindy williams th street omaha north-east williams louisiana mode incorporated shawn williams cindy williams farnam street omaha north-east group llc katherine yu jia chi fred yu wilmar avenue grand island north-east tkl witte llc charles lalanne tammara lalanne leota street north platte north-east williams louisiana mode incorporated shawn williams cynthia.willi ams westport parkway louisiana vista north-east williams louisiana mode incorporated shawn williams cynthia.willi ams th street omaha north-east yl creamery llc yi ju angela liao route eatontown new jersey silver scoop creamery llc nishantha vithana shermila vithana cedar bridge avenue brick new jersey silver scoop limited liability company nishantha vithana sloan street south orange new jersey hoboken first joe llc joseph tanagho washington street hoboken new jersey king llc pankaj trivedi dharmesh trivedi prospect avenue west orange new jersey fun rockaway incorporated gayan ondaatjie mount hope avenue rockaway new jersey living well creamery llc gyu jeong michelle soomi jeong bellevue avenue montclair new jersey yava creamery limited liability company purvi gandhi nirav gandhi dearborn circle mount laurel new jersey amazins incorporated insiya dhrolia mazahar dhrolia us highway morganville new jersey gpbr llc rajeshkumar patel ryders lane milltown new jersey gopal prince llc rajeshkumar patel bhartiben patel broad street westfield new jersey suk tae choi and yelin derflinger yelin derflinger suk tae choi broadway westwood new jersey ice cream investments south brunswick llc joyce hatter donald hatter route kendall park new jersey dt rs llc david topolewski state route holmdel new jersey riyas creamery limited liability company purvi gandhi princeton hightstown road east windsor new jersey macag bedminster partners llc scott macmillan richard agnolet b route north bedminster new jersey silver scoop chocolate llc nishantha vithana shermila vithana state route hackettstown new jersey wallach and higgins limited partnership seymour. wallach iris wallach jeffrey. wallach greentree road sewell new jersey macag flemington partners llc richard agnolet scott macmillan us highway flemington new jersey ltc foods llc ltc foods llc kapkowski road elizabeth new jersey aburomi mohammed and ziyad ziyad aburomi mohammed aburomi washington street morristown new jersey woodbridge center llc john zimmerman woodbridge center drive woodbridge township new jersey gurpar group incorporated ltc foods llc edgar road linden new jersey association llc jimmy.barreau jeffers on.lazo morris avenue union new jersey oospecka llc jeremy yarbrough larry yarbrough jeremy yarbrough larry yarbrough main street farmington new mexico willis investment corporation tom willis deceased christine willis wyoming boulevard north-east albuquerque new mexico willis investment corporation christine willis tom willis deceased central avenue south-east albuquerque new mexico rio grande creamery and foods incorporated cynthia morales ricardo morales telshor boulevard las cruces new mexico willis investment corporation tom willis deceased christine willis pan american freeway north-east albuquerque new mexico willis investment corporation tom willis deceased christine willis ellison road north-west albuquerque new mexico mgb enterprises llc eugene bush mercedes baca bush main street north-west los lunas new mexico willis investment corporation tom willis deceased christine willis unser boulevard south-east rio rancho new mexico sargon incorporated rainey adam nadia adam craig road north las vegas nevada thomas rose llc devon aurich matthew maltese sahara avenue las vegas nevada megha investments llc purvi megha jay megha maryland parkway las vegas nevada megha llc purvi megha jay megha durango drive las vegas nevada ro jang keun jang keun ro charleston boulevard las vegas nevada bibbings llc henry bibbings sunset road henderson nevada bibbings llc henry bibbings durango drive las vegas nevada shoppers. incorporated chris reynolds plumb lane reno nevada adams group incorporated rainey adam nadia adam horizon ridge parkway henderson nevada karr food entertainment llc audrey karr jonathan karr silver street elko nevada lane place llc nadia adam decatur boulevard las vegas nevada sip empire corporation justin brigandi melissa brigandi carousel center syracuse new york queens ice cream parlor incorporated marilina denuptiis alfonso valoroso ernest. denuptiis susan valoroso union turnpike flushing new york anmab stone incorporated rizwan basit hempstead turnpike levittown new york chicago scoops llc kyle welch jonathan shulkin thomas watkins antonio gracias central park avenue scarsdale new york stone incorporated rizwan basit broadway lynbrook new york golden ice cream llc hui wang louie hui annual yan shi cregan richmond avenue staten island new york and unlimited incorporated abid. qureshi middle country road centereach new york long island creamery incorporated ernest. denuptiis marilina denuptiis alfonso valoroso susan valoroso franklin avenue garden city new york fnmm creamery corporation bipul kumar saha harkness avenue brooklyn new york our first creamery incorporated waliul chowdhury arshad khwaja crossbay boulevard howard beach new york jmr creamery llc steven choi mamaroneck avenue white plains new york south shore creamery incorporated andre espinola deer park avenue babylon new york mmm creamery corporation mohammed ali razai akm masud hasan mustaque ahmed western avenue albany new york csc webster llc allan lanny auchter ridge road webster new york james hosung lee james hosung lee service road patchogue new york dolce gusto llc roberto coppolecchia route somers new york endeavorinside llc usman syed syed khalid rizvi merritt boulevard fishkill new york belstar ice cream colorado llc michael belvedere steinway street long island city new york zileli llc feridun zilelioglu washington avenue pleasantville new york endeavorinside llc usman syed syed khalid rizvi south road poughkeepsie new york kh corporation dan carriero amelia drive orchard park new york zareen corporation bipul kumar saha mohammed ali razai akm masud hasan mustaque ahmed cooper avenue glendale new york akg enterprise llc ahmed hassan amr sherif vestal parkway vestal new york chicago scoops llc thomas watkins antonio gracias kyle welch jonathan shulkin queens boulevard elmhurst new york chicago scoops llc kyle welch jonathan shulkin thomas watkins antonio gracias flatbush avenue brooklyn new york stone incorporated rizwan basit sunrise highway valley stream new york ice cream empire llc ken sharp miamisburg centerville road dayton oh riffle legendairy creameries llc jessica riffle andrew riffle kalie sanders adam riffle rigby road miamisburg oh dayton creamery incorporated faisal hemani jasper street dayton oh kat enterprises llc kathryn harr andrea watros hill road north pickerington oh marsella llc james markino michael biasella dussel drive maumee oh smk llc dime milenkovski slavica milenkovski polaris parkway columbus oh total accounting and consulting llc hazem najjar ahmad shaheen hospital drive dublin oh randhawa united llc navbir randhawa jasbir randhawa ridge road brooklyn oh marsella llc james markino michael biasella portage street north-west north canton oh sweet treats llc ronald burk julie burk clinton street defiance oh marsella llc james markino michael biasella park lane hudson oh marsella llc james markino michael biasella medina road fairlawn oh hulme family creamery llc christine hulme mike hulme experiment farm road troy oh smk llc dime milenkovski slavica milenkovski state street westerville oh dam creamery llc dimitar jovanoski maja jovanoski mill street gahanna oh lucky llc mingdeng zhong ziyi emily zhong stringtown road grove city oh sarmento enterprises limited kimberly sarmento mark sarmento talmadge road toledo oh bison creamery llc christopher brett neely holly neely miller lane dayton oh sweet revenge incorporated michelle suzi kinn sandra gray judy chester interstate court findlay oh hershy enterprise limited haribhakti patel princeton road hamilton oh riffle legendairy creameries llc kalie sanders adam riffle jessica riffle andrew riffle chestnut street dayton oh marsella llc james markino michael biasella niles cortland road south-east warren oh ice cream llc patti hamm charles hamm north dakota street edmond ok ventures llc omar elkerdany ahmed hassan macarthur boulevard oklahoma city ok twin scoop. rick cruz rob cruz north-west th avenue hillsboro or bachelor of arts enterprises llc blair sundell bahrd ashleigh sundell bahrd medford center medford or the haugen corporation imelda haugen troy haugen north-west civic drive gresham or twin scoop. rob cruz rick cruz center street north-east salem or twin scoop. rick cruz rob cruz south-west nyberg street tualatin or rockport international investment corporation mumtaz jaffer saleem jaffer north-west th street corvallis or woosh llc kolap ung james frank north-west highway lincoln city or twin scoop. rick cruz rob cruz south-west scholls ferry road tigard or tipster llc virginya cook south-west canal boulevard redmond or twin scoop. rick cruz rob cruz south-east tualatin valley highway hillsboro or tkej llc julie johnsen eric johnsen robinson center drive pittsburgh pennsylvania satyam and poorna creamery incorporated jyothsna chunduri balaji chunduri jonestown road harrisburg pennsylvania kp chamsari llc seung. kim jong hee kim park beaver avenue state college pennsylvania rkmcsc llc ranjeet mullick forbes avenue pittsburgh pennsylvania kk food llc kevin kalaria subhash kalaria gulph road king of prussia pennsylvania stivali incorporated matthew baiada baltimore pike springfield pennsylvania waheguru ji incorporated jasvir kaur papermill road reading pennsylvania kgn stores incorporated subhash diwan shipra diwan easton road warrington pennsylvania rkmcsc llc ranjeet mullick freeport road pittsburgh pennsylvania lady luck creamery llc elizabeth zawilla millcreek plaza erie pennsylvania eden magic scoop incorporated tony truong eden truong cheltenham avenue wyncote pennsylvania investment group llc tony truong tony truong welsh road willow grove pennsylvania krk retail incorporated ketan patel rajiv patel neshaminy mall bensalem pennsylvania nirav gandhi purvi gandhi purvi gandhi nirav gandhi street road feasterville trevose pennsylvania brown daniel. dan brown lincoln highway langhorne pennsylvania two sisters creamery llc nirav gandhi montage mountain road moosic pennsylvania rowan mary mary rowan aramingo avenue philadelphia pennsylvania esm creamery corporation bernard rodgers susan rodgers greengate centre circle greensburg pennsylvania creamery incorporated carlos perez ricardo perez miguel perez highway prairie bo. canabon las catalinas cinemas mall caguas prairie stone of grace incorporated manuel baez perez kayra rivera martinez olympic plaza shopping center las piedras prairie ramos jose. and jose. jose ramos jose ramos manati gardens manati prairie the creamery shop corporation john torres alvarez marilyn molina avenida hostos ponce prairie creamery incorporated ricardo perez carlos perez miguel perez caribbean cinema building bo los frailes calle plaza guaynabo guaynabo prairie betancourt ismael ismael betancourt delaware infanteria avenue store escorial shopping village carolina prairie junior acquisition corporation jose ramos jose ramos condominio reina delaware castilla paseo portuario old san juan san juan prairie creamery incorporated osvaldo pavon colon yvonne morales building suite plaza rio hondo shopping center bayamon prairie creamery incorporated miguel perez carlos perez ricardo perez carr. kilometer interjection carr bo. manati abajo barceloneta prairie creamery incorporated osvaldo pavon colon yvonne morales avenue isla verde carolina prairie esmeraldas ice cream incorporated ismael betancourt carretera local los colobos monte real shopping center carolina prairie gbp creamery incorporated jose martinez nydia martinez carr. kilometer plaza sultana shopping center mayaguez prairie the creamery brothers corporation jose ramos jose ramos calle truncado hatillo prairie the creamery parlor corporation john torres alvarez marilyn molina bo felixia carr bo felixia interjection carr plaza del prado shopping center santa isabel prairie junior acquisition corporation jose ramos jose ramos montehiedra town center local fc avenue san juan prairie chicago scoops llc antonio gracias jonathan shulkin kyle welch thomas watkins chapel view boulevard cranston rhode island bhig ice cream llc rebecca haik ian greene franklin street westerly rhode island sir scoop lot llc jason hill jessica hill palmetto street florence scottish pellegrino sons llc elizabeth pellegrino david pellegrino celebrity circle myrtle beach scottish jeffcoat creamery llc brandon jeffcoat bryon jeffcoat lake drive lexington scottish jeffcoat creamery llc brandon jeffcoat bryon jeffcoat rivers avenue north charleston scottish pellegrino sons llc elizabeth pellegrino david pellegrino kings road myrtle beach scottish cooler upstate llc chad eads woodruff road greenville scottish atkinson edward edward atkinson columbiana drive columbia scottish pellegrino sons llc david pellegrino elizabeth pellegrino deville street myrtle beach scottish llc arooj.akram raja.akr am broadcloth street fort mill scottish huan nguyen individual huan.nguyen knox avenue north augusta scottish colonial creamery incorporated cindy reesman edward reesman shirley avenue sioux falls south dakota black hills creamery incorporated ronald kirkpatrick main street rapid city south dakota madeeda llc hisham zeinelabdin old hickory boulevard brentwood tennessee sweet dreams llc rita mccay chestnut street chattanooga tennessee naturally fun creations llc james hendrick annettte hendricks tiny town road clarksville tennessee naturally fun creations llc james hendrick annettte hendricks madison street clarksville tennessee investments llc philip knutson kristen knutson texas avenue college station texas ice cream. debbie deininger paul deininger bandera road helotes texas shri modheshwari corporation incorporated jagruti kamlesh modi kamlesh hiralal modi summer lee drive rockwall texas kanishka enterprises llc ashutosh paul anita gambhir nishma bains us highway sherman texas enterprises llc gwen referente jonas referente broadway street pearland texas cscreamery cypress llc luis alberto ruiz guerrero ileana contreras garcia spring cypress road cypress texas nobe enterprises llc natasha dowd saint michael drive texarkana texas moca creamery limited jesus leonel leo moreno delia moreno th street mcallen texas creamery llc lorena vidaurri victor vidaurri university avenue lubbock texas sasnak llc greg cropp north zaragosa road el paso texas ice cream. debbie deininger paul deininger louisiana cantera parkway san antonio texas seven star united states of america usa or llc mohammed tleib hanan tleib pat booker road live oak texas sasnak llc greg cropp mesa street el paso texas gregory cropp greg cropp gateway boulevard el paso texas rktaus llc syed ahmed southwest drive abilene texas creamery llc lorena vidaurri victor vidaurri georgia street amarillo texas shri modheshwari allen incorporated kamlesh hiralal modi ratnakar mody ankita mehta stacy road allen texas moriarty creamery llc thomas moriarty kathleen moriarty arlington highlands boulevard arlington texas moriarty creamery atc llc thomas moriarty kathleen moriarty texas sage trail fort worth texas maac international llc vincent neal tyner preetkamal tyner aldo zamora pablo kisel boulevard brownsville texas northeast asia investment management llc qian wang liang leo kong tiehui.wang highway cypress texas northeast asia investment management llc qian wang liang leo kong tiehui.wang spring stuebner road spring texas martha robbins and david delaware louisiana paz martha.robbins david.de louisiana paz us highway frontage road mansfield texas rhey csc llc vinay.calyampoondi adma venkatrangan southlake boulevard southlake texas dawntoduskcoffee llc vijayabalan.babu chit ra.babu riverside irving texas cold colorado llc greggory peck melanie leishman university parkway provo utah chicago scoops llc kyle welch jonathan shulkin thomas watkins antonio gracias union park avenue midvale utah price lane jana jenson lane. price jana jenson price bountiful utah fama enterprises llc fabio demelo redwood road south jordan utah stone cold confections logan lc josh christensen eldon haacke logan utah dcs creamery lc donald seth paxman draper utah sweet indulgence incorporated stephen bracken joy bracken university mall orem utah webb group llc tamara webb donald webb state road american fork utah chicago scoops llc jonathan shulkin thomas watkins antonio gracias kyle welch main street spanish fork utah the sweet place llc dalton place bart place jolyn place chase place audra place north main street layton utah gobogh incorporated dewayne glazier jared glazier west center park drive west jordan utah glazier jared dewayne dewayne glazier jared glazier south state street murray utah sunset breaks llc matthew jacobson red cliffs drive street george utah chicago scoops llc kyle welch jonathan shulkin thomas watkins antonio gracias market street park city utah rbc ice cream llc robin christensen becky christensen main street price utah chicago scoops llc kyle welch jonathan shulkin thomas watkins antonio gracias main street tooele utah gobogh incorporated dewayne glazier jared glazier south state street sandy utah rkpearson enterprises llc russell pearson karilynne pearson west highway vernal utah webb group llc donald webb tamara webb north redwood road saratoga springs utah chicago scoops llc jonathan shulkin thomas watkins kyle welch antonio gracias highland drive salt lake city utah chicago scoops llc thomas watkins kyle welch antonio gracias jonathan shulkin district drive south jordan utah stone properties. paul.norman darcy. ride chris.kesler kevi.kesler th street ogden utah the sweet place llc dalton place bart place jolyn place chase place audra place clinton utah rashid csc incorporated mohammad rashid oyster point road newport news virginia ramji llc hinaben patel shital patel line fair oaks mall fairfax virginia chicago scoops llc kyle welch jonathan shulkin thomas watkins antonio gracias harbour view boulevard suffolk virginia coleh investments llc jennifer rider james rider nimmo parkway virginia beach virginia ace of spades. phillip combest central park avenue virginia beach virginia jeff roth incorporated jeffrey. roth rittenhouse drive midlothian virginia cool delights llc melva pinn bingham leon bingham power plant parkway hampton virginia park soon chun soon chun park broad street richmond virginia donald investment corporation jeffrey donald clara donald lynnhaven parkway virginia beach virginia shah ventures llc syed saif ul islam shah numaan shah brook road glen allen virginia country treats incorporated heather mcguinness michael mcguinness sudley road manassas virginia nashwan cleaner incorporated nashwan talib maple avenue vienna virginia kennvi llc pavan pendyala venkata yeramati madhusudh an gorantla sudha narra edwards ferry road north-east leesburg virginia sk llc sanjay kapoor eden way chesapeake virginia sks norfolk llc keval shah sanjay patel amy mitchell lucas mitchell street street norfolk virginia captain bobs ice cream extravaganza llc su fischer alverser plaza midlothian virginia axm investments llc ajaz shaikh almas hasan mobin sayed swamp fox road alexandria virginia sydley christiansburg llc anthony dayyani franklin street christiansburg virginia quality creamery llc terrance knight broad street richmond virginia country treats incorporated michael mcguinness heather mcguinness atlas walk way gainesville virginia rusvey corporation michael mike harvey blanche harvey alexandria pike warrenton virginia onemil development llc anthony dayyani crystal drive crystal city virginia jl woodbridge llc james shiao prince william parkway woodbridge virginia pps incorporated sadda pallavi satyashyam gaddam praveen bobbasani worldgate drive herndon virginia new jersey creamery llc niraj hemrajani strawberry lane falls church virginia kennvi llc madhusudhan gorantla sudha narra venkata yeramati pavan pendyala dulles retail plaza dulles virginia shyam creamery llc niraj hemrajani gopal pardasani ryan road ashburn virginia park soon chun soon chun park broad street richmond virginia light of life llc chris howard andrew southpoint parkway fredericksburg virginia jmb holdings llc james bates dana bates wards road lynchburg virginia everbloom llc ji young mineralogy b richmond highway alexandria virginia dca treasure llc jean kim john kim burke centre parkway burke virginia parkhead assets incorporated michael mcguinness heather mcguinness regal plaza sterling virginia food llc junior li baihe tian emmet street charlottesville virginia asma and fawad ashraf asma.ashraf fawad. shraf monitcello avenue williamsburg virginia csc woodinville llc raj dhrolia jagdishkumar patel garden way north-east woodinville washington timberline cool treats llc justin kennedy stephanie kennedy north-east th street bellevue washington unlimited possibilities incorporated mary. hansen mary. hansen james hansen newport highway spokane washington timberline cool treats llc justin kennedy stephanie kennedy th avenue north-east redmond washington lee cho llc brandon cho soon jai cho oh southcenter parkway tukwila washington unlimited possibilities incorporated mary. hansen james hansen th avenue spokane washington rs creations llc rajinder rai kamaljit sekhon taranjit sekhon parminder rai lake sammamish parkway south-east issaquah washington eko enterprises llc gagandeep oberoi th street south-west lynnwood washington stauros enterprises incorporated timothy shelton karen shelton meridian avenue puyallup washington llc jagdishkumar patel raj dhrolia main street mill creek washington oh mokpo llc steve oh th plural federal way washington csc lakewood llc jagdishkumar patel raj dhrolia gravelly lake drive south-west lakewood washington csc factoria llc jagdishkumar patel raj dhrolia factoria boulevard south-east bellevue washington chill out llc jeremy annillo sarah annillo south-east th plural covington washington rinck enterprises incorporated angela rinck south-east mill plain boulevard vancouver washington csc lacey llc jagdishkumar patel raj dhrolia marvin road north-east lacey washington rs creations llc kamaljit sekhon taranjit sekhon parminder rai rajinder rai twin lakes avenue marysville washington mickelberry ice cream llc phillip batch melissa batch mickelberry road north-west silverdale washington chill out llc jeremy annillo sarah annillo ramsay way kentish washington cytj creamery corporation charles cho yu kyung cho front street leavenworth washington chicago scoops llc kyle welch jonathan shulkin thomas watkins antonio gracias th street kenosha wisconsin group llc ahmed hassan mohamed amin mohamed elhelw oneida street green bay wisconsin joyful goods incorporated cheryl gerow state highway wisconsin dells wisconsin chicago scoops llc kyle welch jonathan shulkin thomas watkins antonio gracias market plural onalaska wisconsin casual cuisine concepts llc ellen brown duane brown cynthia wetzel calumet street appleton wisconsin four dips llc scott knepper keystone crossing eau claire wisconsin chicago scoops llc kyle welch thomas watkins antonio gracias jonathan shulkin kyle welch jonathan shulkin thomas watkins antonio gracias th street west allis wisconsin chicago scoops llc antonio gracias kyle welch jonathan shulkin thomas watkins deerfield drive janesville wisconsin point creamery llc joseph lamb washington avenue sheboygan wisconsin griffiths sundaes cones llc brian griffiths nicole griffiths main street lake geneva wisconsin point creamery llc joseph lamb division street stevens point wisconsin chicago scoops llc jonathan shulkin kyle welch thomas watkins antonio gracias pearson drive hudson wisconsin betwin associates llc xiaohu tiger wang baozhi yuan xiaohu tiger wang baozhi yuan deming way middleton wisconsin double jade llc yunhong zan jilin he cahill main fitchburg wisconsin alaska trade llc omar elkerdany amr eleish high street morgantown west virginia ab holdings group llc allan bevans pullman square huntington west virginia shia enterprise incorporated tracy shia jackie shia fort henry road wheeling west virginia bz creamery llc steven yasulevicz brenda yasulevicz dell range boulevard cheyenne wyoming creamery llc david medlock jill medlock north dakota street casper wyoming cold stone creamery franchisees who have signed franchise agreements but whose stores were not open as of november franchise company owners address city state zip phone kh corporation kevin hwang kim hwang northern lights boulevard anchorage alaska hwang kevin hotmail.com h corporation gmail.com wild spirit ice cream llc dawn.daniel ohn.daniel houghton road tucson arizona cps enterprise llc sunil.annapur eddy praveen. pati chandan. samireddy ray road chandler arizona parikh palak jinal palak parikh jinal parikh phoenix arizona parikhjinal gmail.com chaudhry humayun sameera humayun chaudhry sam eera chaudhry buckeye arizona humayunsameera yahoo.co sherry maria marketing incorporated mounir.abd el saiad mary.kh alil tbd rancho cucamonga california happy foods united states of america usa or incorporated brinderjit dhaliwal truckee california arco gmail.com taunk raj taunk kamni kamni.taunk raj.taunk whitmore avenue ceres california kvtaunk yahoo.com rajtaunk medicinae doctor yahoo.com sethi pranit kaur pawanjit pawanjit.kaur pranit.sethi san jose california pawanjitkaur yahoo.com pranit sethi yahoo.com dhatt harvinderpal jasvir tanvir harvinderpal. dhatt jasvir. hatt tanvir.dh attic yuba city california harvinderdhatt yahoo.com asvirdhatt gmail.com tanv irdhatt yahoo.com shafik shamel hanan mohamed shamel.shafik hanan.shafik mohamed.sha fik rialto california shamelsamishafik gmail.com nanohananshafik gmail.com mosafik gmail.com gig creamery incorporated elvi.basuki delaware vie.basuki santa monica california elvibasuki gmail.com dbasuk i svmprocleaning.com diaz criselda criselda diaz blossom hill road san jose california criselda att.net bedigian edward and andrew edward.bedigi an andrew.be digian lankershim boulevard north hollywood california edwardbedigian gmail.com a ndrewbedigian yahoo.com shafik shamel mohamed shamel.shafik mohamed.sha fik riverside california shamelsamishafik gmail.com mosafik gmail.com abdul samad gill and huma khan abdul.gill hum akhan tbd yucaipa california chsarmad gmail.com umasgill gmail.com singh jaspreet jaspreet.singh delta shores california jassy hotmail.com csc mountain house enterprise sandeep hans mountain house california dakota south dakota hans hotmail.com csc gilroy llc eun chan jacob park charles lin leavesley road gilroy california fang meng xie wencan meng.fang encan.xie village way san diego california sharma gaurav takhar mandeep mandeep mike takhar gaurav sharma norco california mike hotmail.com gsh arma gmail.com martinez sanchez cortez mcqueary melissa martinez blanc a sanchez luis. ortez jennifer. mcqueary base line upland california nl investments incorporated natalie lord north dakota lane arvada colorado natt msn.com mohammed karim individual mohammed. arim washington district of columbia wu nderful creations corporation awawu umaru market street washington district of columbia meyer gregorio franchises llc jose.gregorio junior julie hurstfield meyer tbd coral gabels floruit large capital llc ehab.hosny tbd orlando floruit kamal hossain individual kamal.hossain lake nona floruit chapel creamery incorporated deepal.patel ji tendra.patel bruce downs boulevard wesley chapel floruit lutz creamery incorporated deepal.patel ji tendra.patel tbd lutz floruit dolan ventures llc edward.dolan juliet.dolan ody.dolan erik adiaz tbd port saint lucie floruit shafique faisal yasir ahmad faisal.shafiqu ahmad.yasir del ray floruit tacklepromotions gmail.com ahmad yasir hotmail.com shafique faisal yasir ahmad faisal.shafiqu ahmad.yasir boca raton floruit tacklepromotions gmail.com ahmad yasir hotmail.com jkci valrico corporation joshua cook kelly cook lakewood floruit jkcinvestments gmail.com underwaterhunter gmail. commission csc of naples llc hitesh barvaliya mitul chothani golden gate parkway naples floruit barvaliya hitesh hitesh barvaliya leigh acres floruit csc gmail.com barvaliya hitesh hitesh barvaliya bonita springs floruit csc gmail.com dattani management corporation hasmukh dattani labhu dattani biren dattani karish massachusetts dattani orlando floruit hhd dattanicorp.com lhd attanicorp.com bhd dattanic orp.com kd dattanicorp.com huaca conrad denise denise hauca conrad hauca land lakes floruit denise.hauca gmail.com con radhauca gmail.com ramatally michelle michelle.rama tally homestead floruit mramatally yahoo.com hitesh barvaliya mitul chothani mitul chothani hites barvaliya port charlotte floruit mitulchothani yahoo.com cs county gmail.com jkci valrico corporation joshua cook kelly cook cornerstone boulevard daytona beach floruit walker shadae walker dwight shadae.walke dwight.walk er avenue maria floruit swhyte gmail.com param shah param shah roshan patel atlanta georgia param.shah tetratrack.net oshan yahoo.com patel hemen patel sunny sunny patel hemen patel meridian drive grovetown georgia shukla dhimant dhimant shukla macon georgia dhimant united states of america usa or yahoo.com zigns llc shimit.soumit hran anup.nai vikas.menon buford georgia shimitsm gmail.com anuprn gmail.com vikasmenonk gmail.com momin nazadali almas nazadali.momi almas.momi tucker georgia samalimomin gmail.com a lmasmomin gmail.com ali covington llc zishanbanu. omin mohmed munir.momin brown ridge road covington georgia nuzatmomin yahoo.com mominayad yahoo.com sugar grove creamery incorporated daxkumar.pat el siddharth. atel sugar grove illinois daxpatel gmail.com sidd harthpatel gmail.com mjm enterprises llc satyan bakhai th street leawood kansas brickyard llc derrick.phipps daniel.phipps black street barbourville key derrick.phipps redemptionro adky.com daniel.phipps rede mptionroadky.com mr sons llc sadaf.ambree zahid.hussai tbd kenner louisiana umaru olatunji olatunji.umar upper marlboro medicinae doctor coldstone gmail.com stout wendy wendy.stout jessup medicinae doctor stoutmom aol.com bhatti faisal and bhatti munaza munaza bhatti faisal bhatti rockville medicinae doctor hirah hotmail.com brokaw thomas thomas.broka silver spring medicinae doctor contact thstreetllc.com mjm enterprise company llc satyan bakhai ward parkway kansas city month meirguli yahoo.com husted daniel marlena daniel.husted marlena.huste big sky mount dshusted hotmail.com marle nahusted gmail.com ali emad.ali main street high point north carolina csr.inc aol.com yousef muhammad muhammad masood yousef durham north carolina masoodusaf icloud.com choi steven choi hyun steven choi hyun.cho i fort lee new jersey coldstonewp yahoo.com sup ermr yahoo.com pothuru ranjit ranjit.pothuru plainfield new jersey sampadllc gmail.com paul gabriel gabriel.paul neward new jersey paulg gmail.com wilson partner llc john.mondry ssia.wilson route jersey city new jersey johnmondry aol.com assiaw gmail.com marie and salvatore chioda marie.chioda salvatore.chio da north dakota street gallup new mexico weloveicecream gmail.co sammychioda gmail.com acbr incorporated chris reynolds tbd reno nevada goldmine creamery llc hui.yan shi staten island new york mervin harding mervin.hardin ralph avenue brooklyn new york khaim peter peter.khaim tbd queens new york consultinggroup gmail.co chowdhury waliul et alabama zahir mahmud dilaf ounce ahmed waliul chowdhury arkansas shad khwaja bronx new york zam new york aol.com nargisa hmedny gmail.com ourcolds tone gmail.com arshad.khw aja outlook.com chowdhury waliul et alabama waliul chowdhury arkansas shad khwaja zahir mahmud dilaf ounce ahmed bronx new york ourcoldstone gmail.com arsh ad.khwaja outlook.com zam new york aol.com nargisahme dny gmail.com golden scoop llc oscar.mo hui annual yan shi cregan hylan boulevard staten island new york mo.oscar gmail.com an ncregan gmail.com saha bipul bipul kumar saha brooklyn new york bipul yahoo.com ahmad irslan irslan.ahmad commack new york irslan wirelesshs.net razai mohammed ahmed mustaque and hasan akm mohammed ali razai mustaqu ahmed akm masud hasan new york new york alirazai aol.com monnip ya hoo.com frznhasan yahoo.co razai mohammed ahmed mustaque and hasan akm mohammed ali razai mustaqu ahmed akm masud hasan new york new york alirazai aol.com monnip ya hoo.com frznhasan yahoo.co crowned ventures llc daniel.willbra north dakota nicole willbrand deerfield boulevard mason oh loui united states of america usa or llc loui.ridi angola road holland oh loui ridistores.com waheguru ji incorporated jasvir kaur fruitville pike lancaster pennsylvania jeffcoat creamery llc bryon jeffcoat brand on jeffcoat charleston scottish jeffcoatcsc gmail.com chicago scoops llc jonathan shulkin kyle welch thomas watkins anton io gracias franklin tennessee kwelch chicago scoops.com chicago scoops llc thomas watkins anton io gracias jonath an shulkin kyle welch west nashville tennessee kwelch chicago scoops.com chicago scoops llc jonathan shulkin kyle welch thomas watkins anton io gracias henderson ville tennessee kwelch chicago scoops.com kamlesh modi and jagruti modi kamlesh hiralal modi jagruti kamlesh modi tbd plano texas dawntoduskco ffee llc vijayabalan.ba bu chitra.babu frisco texas vbabu gmail.com chitra b gmail.com rhey csc llc vinay.calyamp oondi padma venkatrangan colleyville boulevard colleyville texas creamery llc victor vidaurri loren a vidaurri amarillo texas stophic gmail.com ka group llc amr eleish omar elkerdany interstate hay round rock texas acharya daxesh swati daxesh.achary a swati.acjaru a san antonio texas jaivanicorporation gmail.com acharyaswati hotmail.com mehta ankita et. alabama ankita mehta dharme sh.mehta heta.bhatt ridham.bhatt kamles hiralal modi jagruti kamlesh modi ratnakar mody lalitabe mody the colony texas anki hotmail.com sarj oo hotmail.com hkmodi gmail.com bhattridham gmail.com coldstone mail.com tyner vincent and tyner preetkamal vincent neal tyner preetka mal tyner san benito texas heethenn aol.com coldstone gmail.com rio grande creamery and foods incorporated ricardo morales cynthi a morales el paso texas coldstonecreamery yaho.com torres christopher and danielle danielle.lucky christpher.to rres richardson texas danielle.lucky yahoo.com kni ckerbockertx gmail.com hassan fatima chandiwala monsoor fatima.hassan mansoor.cha ndiwala houston texas superherofati gmail.com massachusetts nsoorytc gmail.com wisnoski bryan jessica bryan.wisnosk i jessica.wisno ski conroe texas bwisnoski consolidated.net wisnoski consolidated.net gutha ashok ashok.gutha little elm texas rajatbatta gmail.com tyner vincent and tyner preetkamal vincent neal tyner preetka mal tyner expressway weslaco texas heethenn aol.com coldstone gmail.com vubbara venugopal snehalatha venugopal.vu bbara snehala tha.vubbara prosper texas venu vabbara yahoo.com sneha yahoo.co.in ashade aboidun egbai paulet aboidun.asha delaware paulet.egb ai coppell texas abbylive gmail.com egbai gmail.com chicago scoops llc kyle welch jonatha shulkin thomas watkins anton io gracias west valley utah kwelch chicago scoops.com utsa llc ravindra dankanikote armada ravindra south riding virginia mohammed karim individual mohammed. arim backlick road springfield virginia hym llc nashwan talib apollo drive woodbridg virginia nashwantalib yahoo.com kabani rosmin rosmin.kabani ashburn virginia aftaabkabani gmail.com tian baihe li junior baihe tian junior li charlottesvi lle virginia tianbaihe gmail.com ijun hotmail.com dastani kamyar dastani keikhosrow kamyar dastani keikho srow dastani arlington virginia kamyardastani gmail.com kd astani yahoo.com pinn bingham melva bingham leon melva pinn bingham leon bingham norfolk virginia melvapinn gmail.com leon.bi ngham yahoo.com patel karan chintan karan.patel ch intan.patel chester virginia karanpatel gmail.com camp outlook.com kennvi llc pavan pendyala venk ata yeramati mad husudhan gorantla sudh agorantla chantilly virginia pendyala.net gmail.com dee pa.yeramati gmail.com mad hu kennvi.com narra.sudha gmail.com sfour llc srinivasa.andh avarapu satya.malla venkata.voona sriniva sa.rao korada shri aarna investments llc rochan goswami nancy and kentish lee individuals kentish lee nancy lee keshavjivans cold serves and desserts llc divyan patel null gassab sweis william sweis divyan patel divyan patel susan and bernard rodgers bernard rodgers susan rodgers patel anish anish patel razai mohammed ahmed mustaque and hasan akm mohammed ali razai mustaqu ahmed akm masud hasan patel rajeshkumar patel rajesh sohagiya dharmendra rajeshkumar patel rajesh patel dharmen dra.sohagiya patelrajesh yahoo.co.i suhagiya gmail.com ghori mohammad majeed aaqib mohammad. hori aaqib.maj eed pringle mark blazevich kelli blazevich christopher mark pringle kelli blazevich chris topher blazevich reelhunter aol.com chriskelli yahoo.com gassama sidiki sidiki gassama exhibit to the franchise disclosure document financial statements consolidated financial statements of mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated for the years ended november and independent auditor report. consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income loss. consolidated statements of changes in stockholder equity. consolidated balance sheets. consolidated statements of cash flows. notes to the consolidated financial statements. pricewaterhousecoopers llp ren lvesque boulevard west suite montral quebec canada h b y pwc refers to pricewaterhousecoopers llp an ontario limited liability partnership. report of independent auditors to the management and stockholder of mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated opinion we have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated and its subsidiaries the company which comprise the consolidated balance sheets as of november and and the related consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income loss of changes in stockholder equity and of cash flows for the years then ended including the related notes collectively referred to as the consolidated financial statements. in our opinion the accompanying consolidated financial statements present fairly in all material respects the financial position of the company as of november and and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the years then ended in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. basis for opinion we conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the united states of america us gaas. our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements section of our report. we are required to be independent of the company and to meet our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the relevant ethical requirements relating to our audit. we believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. emphasis of matter as discussed in note to the consolidated financial statements the company changed the manner in which it accounts for leases indiana our opinion is not modified with respect to this matter. responsibilities of management for the consolidated financial statements management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america and for the design implementation and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement whether due to fraud or error. in preparing the consolidated financial statements management is required to evaluate whether there are conditions or events considered in the aggregate that raise substantial doubt about the company ability to continue as a going concern for one year after the date the consolidated financial statements are available to be issued. auditors responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement whether due to fraud or error and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion. reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not absolute assurance and therefore is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with us gaas will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. the risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error as fraud may involve collusion forgery intentional omissions misrepresentations or the override of internal control. misstatements are considered material if there is a substantial likelihood that individually or in the aggregate they would influence the judgment made by a reasonable user based on the consolidated financial statements. in performing an audit in accordance with us gaas we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements whether due to fraud or error and design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks. such procedures include examining on a test basis evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company internal control. accordingly no such opinion is expressed. evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by management as well as evaluate the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. conclude whether in our judgment there are conditions or events considered in the aggregate that raise substantial doubt about the company ability to continue as a going concern for a reasonable period of time. we are required to communicate with those charged with governance regarding among other matters the planned scope and timing of the audit significant audit findings and certain internal control related matters that we identified during the audit. montral quebec canada february cpa auditor public accountancy permit number a mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income loss years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page notes adjusted adjusted note note revenue costs and expenses operating expenses depreciation property plant and equipment amortization intangible assets impairment charge property plant and equipment impairment charge operating lease right of use assets impairment charge intangible assets and goodwill interest expense management fees charged by parent company other income expenses interest income gain loss on disposal of property plant and equipment and assets held for sale gain on extinguisment of holdback gain on delaware recognition lease modification of operating lease liabilities income loss before income taxes income tax expense recovery current deferred net income loss and comprehensive income loss the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated consolidated statements of changes in stockholder equity years ended november and in thousands of us dollars except number of common stock issued page common stock issued common stock value retained earnings total stockholder equity adjusted adjusted note note balance as at november adjustment on adoption of asc note balance as at december net loss and comprehensive loss balance as at november net income and comprehensive income balance as at november net income and comprehensive income balance as at november the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated consolidated balance sheets as at november and in thousands of us dollars page notes adjusted adjusted note note assets current assets cash restricted cash accounts receivable inventories assets held for sale current portion of loans receivable receivable from company under common control receivable from ultimate parent prepaid expenses and deposits other current assets income taxes receivable loans receivable contract cost asset other assets property plant and equipment operating lease right of use assets intangible assets goodwill liabilities current liabilities accounts payable accrued liabilities gift card liability promotional funds payable current portion of operating lease liabilities current portion of deferred revenue and deposits income taxes payable advance from parent company advance from ultimate parent advances from companies under common control current portion of holdbacks payable the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated consolidated balance sheets continued as at november and in thousands of us dollars page notes adjusted adjusted note note liabilities continued long term loan from company under common control other liabilities operating lease liabilities deferred revenue and deposits deferred income taxes stockholder equity common stock retained earnings approved by the board on february director mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated consolidated statements of cash flows years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page notes adjusted adjusted note note operating activities net income loss and comprehensive income loss items not affecting cash restricted cash depreciation property plant and equipment amortization intangible assets interest expense gain loss on disposal of property plant and equipment and assets held for sale impairment charge property plant and equipment impairment charge operating lease right of use assets impairment charge intangible assets and goodwill gain on extinguisment of holdback gain on delaware recognition lease modification of operating lease liabilities deferred income tax recovery interest paid changes in non cash working capital items accounts receivable inventories prepaid expenses and deposits loans receivable other current assets income taxes accounts payable accrued liabilities promotional funds payable gift card liability deferred revenue and deposits other net cash provided from operating activities mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page notes adjusted adjusted note note investing activities net cash outflow on acquisition net cash acquired through business acquisition additions to property plant and equipment additions to intangible assets proceeds on disposal of property plant and equipment proceeds on disposal of assets held for sale net cash used in provided from investing activities financing activities net advance from to ultimate parent and parent company net advance to from companies under common control repayment of holdbacks payable net cash provided from used in financing activities net increase decrease in cash restricted cash cash restricted cash beginning of year cash restricted cash end of year supplemental cash flow information the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. nature of operations mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated the company or mty united states of america usa or was incorporated on march. the company develops and franchises restaurants under a multitude of different banners in the united states of america the us. significant accounting policies basis of presentation the accounting policies of the company are in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the us us gaap. the company uses the us dollar as its functional and reporting currency and tabular amounts are rounded to the nearest thousand except when otherwise indicated. mty united states of america usa or is a wholly owned subsidiary of mty food group incorporated the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with us gaap requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. actual results could differ from those estimates. presented below are those policies considered particularly significant basis of consolidation the consolidated financial statements reflect the financial position and operating results of the company including wholly owned subsidiaries and investees that we control. the principal subsidiaries of the company are as follows principal subsidiaries percentage of equity interest bf acquisition holdings llc built franchise systems llc cb franchise systems llc kahala brands limited papa murphy holdings incorporated bbq holdings incorporated note revenues and expenses of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income from the effective date of acquisition. the subsidiaries are consolidated from the acquisition date until the date on which the company ceases to control them. all intercompany transactions balances revenues and expenses are eliminated in full upon consolidation. mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. significant accounting policies continued business combinations the company accounts for acquired businesses using the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with financial accounting standards board fasb accounting standards codification asc business combinations. the consideration transferred for the acquisition is the fair values of the assets transferred the liabilities incurred and the equity interest issued. the consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred. identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair value at the acquisition date. goodwill is measured as the excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired. if after reassessment the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred the amount of any non controlling interests in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirer previously held interest in the acquiree if any the excess is recognized immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain. goodwill reflects how the acquisition will impact the company ability to generate future profits in excess of existing profits. the consideration paid mostly relates to combined synergies related mainly to revenue growth. these benefits are not recognized separately from goodwill as they do not meet the recognition criteria for identifiable intangible assets. when the consideration transferred by the company in a business combination includes assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement the contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition date fair value and included as part of the consideration transferred in a business combination. when a business combination is achieved in stages the company previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date i the date when the company obtains control and the resulting gain or loss if any is recognized in profit or loss. amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously been recognized in income and other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss where such treatment would be appropriate if that interest were disposed of. if the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs the company reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. those provisional amounts are adjusted retrospectively during the measurement period or additional assets or liabilities are recognized to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that if known would have affected the amounts recognized at that date. goodwill goodwill represents the excess of cost over the net tangible assets and identifiable intangible assets of acquired businesses. goodwill is carried at cost reduced by previous impairment losses if any. mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. significant accounting policies continued functional currency the functional currency of the company and its subsidiaries is the us dollar. the company translates monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the us dollar at the exchange rates prevailing at the end of the reporting period non monetary assets denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the exchange rate prevailing at the transaction date all revenue and expense items denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at the transaction date. all foreign exchange gains and losses are reported in profit or loss. revenue recognition revenue is recognized upon the transfer of control of promised goods or services to customer in an amount that reflects the consideration the company expects to receive for those goods or services. revenue from franchise locations i royalties are based either on a percentage of gross sales as reported by the franchisees or on a fixed monthly fee. they are recognized on an accrual basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreement as they are earned. ii promotional fund contributions are based on a percentage of gross sales as reported by the franchisees. corresponding promotional fund transfers are presented directly on the consolidated balance sheets. the company is not entitled to retain these promotional fund payments received and is obligated to transfer these funds to be used solely for use in promotional and marketing related costs for specific restaurant banners. the company sometimes charges a fee for the administration of the promotional funds. iii initial franchise fees are recognized on a straight line basis over the term of the franchise agreement as the performance obligation relating to franchise rights is fulfilled. amortization begins once the restaurant has opened. iv upfront fees related to master license agreements are recognized over the term of the master license agreements on a straight line basis. renewal fees and transfer fees are recognized on a straight line basis over the term of the related franchise agreement. virgin islands the company earns rent revenue on certain leases it holds the company policy is described below. vii revenue from equipment sale and retail sales are recognized upon transfer of control generally upon shipment of the equipment or goods. this revenue is recorded in resale material and retail sales. viii the company recognizes breakage income proportionately as each gift card is redeemed based on the historical redemption patterns of the gift cards. the company also charges various program fees to its franchisees as gift cards are redeemed. notably this does not apply to gift card liabilities assumed in a business acquisition which are accounted for at fair value at acquisition date. ix the company receives considerations from certain suppliers. fees are generally earned based on the value of purchases during the period. agreements that contain an initial upfront fee in addition to ongoing fees are recognized on a straight line basis over the term of the respective agreement. supplier contributions are recognized as revenue as they are earned and are recorded in franchising revenue. mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. significant accounting policies continued revenue from franchise locations continued the company earns commerce fees which includes point of sale pos support fees and transaction fees for purchase made through one of the company brands commerce platforms. pos supports fees are received quarterly in advance and are recognized over the period they cover. transaction fees are recognized when the food items purchased from a store are delivered or picked up by customers. revenue from corporate owned locations revenue from corporate owned locations is recorded when goods are delivered to customers. contract cost asset the company recognizes incremental costs of obtaining a contract as an asset if they are expected to be recoverable unless their amortization period would be less than one year in which case they are expensed as incurred. the costs are amortized to operating expenses over the term of the related franchise agreement. leasing the company adopted asc leases asc on december. see note for further details. in accordance with asc the company determines if an arrangement is or contains a lease at contract inception and recognizes a right of use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date. leases with an initial term of months or less but greater than one month are not recorded on the balance sheet for select asset classes. the lease liability is measured at the present value of future lease payments as of the lease commencement date. the right of use asset recognized is based on the lease liability adjusted for prepaid and deferred rent and unamortized lease incentives. an operating lease right of use asset is amortized on a straight line basis over the lease term and is recognized as a single lease cost against the operating lease liability. finance lease right of use asset is amortized on a straight line basis with interest costs reported separately over the lesser of the useful life of the leased asset or lease term. operating lease expense is recognized on a straight line basis over the lease term and is included in operating expenses. variable lease payments are expensed as incurred. the company uses its incremental borrowing rates as the discount rate for its leases which is equal to the rate of interest the company would have to pay on a collateralized basis to borrow an amount equal to the lease payments under similar terms. the lease terms for all the company leases include the contractually obligated period of the leases plus any additional periods covered by company options to extend the leases that the company is reasonably certain to exercise. certain leases provide that the lease payments may be increased annually based on the fixed rate terms or adjustable terms such as the consumer price index. future base rent escalations that are not contractually quantifiable as of the lease commencement date are not included in the lease liability. lease expense for lease payments is recognized on a straight line basis over the lease term. lease expense is comprised of operating and finance lease costs short term lease costs and variable lease costs which primarily include common area maintenance real estate taxes and insurance for the company real estate leases. mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. significant accounting policies continued leasing continued the company enters into leases for franchised and corporately owned locations offices and equipment in the normal course of business. the company as lessee the company recognizes operating lease liabilities with corresponding operating lease right of use assets except for short term leases and leases of low value assets which are expensed on a straight line basis over the lease term. the company leases are all classified as operating leases. the amortization of the operating lease right of use asset and interest expense related to the operating lease liability are recorded together as the lease expense to produce a straight line recognition effect in the consolidated statement of operations. under asc operating lease right of use assets are tested for impairment in accordance with asc property plant and equipment. the company as lessor when the company enters into a sublease arrangement as an intermediate lessor the company accounts for the head lease and the sublease as two separate contracts. all the subleases of the company are classified as operating subleases by reference to the operating lease right of use asset arising from the underlying asset. for operating subleases the company recognizes an operating right of use asset relating to the head lease and recognizes a deferred rent asset or liability in the sublease. as the intermediate lessor the company retains the operating lease liability on the head lease in its consolidated balance sheet. during the term of the sublease the company recognizes both lease income on the sublease and lease expense on the head lease. income taxes the company accounts for income taxes pursuant to asc income taxes asc. deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for differences between the financial statement and tax basis of the assets and liabilities that will result in taxable or deductible amounts in the future based on enacted tax laws and rates. valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. income tax expense is recorded for the amount of income tax payable or refundable for the period increased or decreased by the change in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the period. the company recognizes the financial statement benefit of a tax position only after determining that the relevant tax authority would more likely than not sustain the position following an audit. for tax positions meeting the more likely than not threshold the amount recognized in the financial statements is the largest benefit that has a greater than percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with the relevant tax authority. allowance for doubtful accounts the company currently uses the simplified expected credit loss ecl model for its trade receivables which permits the use of the lifetime expected loss provision for all trade receivables and also incorporates forward looking information. lifetime ecl represents the ecl that will result from all probable default events over the expected life of a financial instrument. mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. significant accounting policies continued assets held for sale assets are classified as held for sale when management with the appropriate authority commits to a plan to sell the assets the assets are available for immediate sale the assets are actively marketed at a reasonable price the sale is probable within a year and certain other criteria met. assets held for sale consist primarily of company owned stores where the company has committed to a plan to sell specific stores. assets designated as held for sale are held at the lower of the net book value or fair value less costs to sell. depreciation is not charged against property plant and equipment classified as assets held for sale. property plant and equipment land and buildings held for use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes are stated in the consolidated balance sheet at their historical costs less accumulated depreciation buildings and accumulated impairment losses. cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset including any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to a working condition for its intended use. equipment leasehold improvements rolling stock and computer hardware are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. depreciation is recognized so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets less their residual values over their useful lives using the straight line method. the estimated useful lives residual values and depreciation methods are reviewed at the end of each year with the effect of any changes in estimate accounted for on a prospective basis. an item of property plant and equipment is derecognized upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset. any gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an item of property plant and equipment is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognized in profit or loss. depreciation is based on the following terms buildings straight line to years equipment straight line three to years leasehold improvements straight line term of the lease rolling stock straight line five to seven years computer hardware straight line three to seven years intangible assets intangible assets acquired separately intangible assets with finite useful lives that are acquired separately are carried at cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses if applicable. amortization is recognized on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives. the estimated useful lives and amortization methods are reviewed at the end of each year with the effect of any changes in estimate being accounted for on a prospective basis. intangible assets with indefinite useful lives that are acquired separately are carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses if applicable. mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. significant accounting policies continued intangible assets continued intangible assets acquired in a business combination intangible assets acquired in a business combination and recognized separately from goodwill are initially recognized at their fair value at the acquisition date. subsequent to initial recognition intangible assets having a finite life acquired in a business combination are reported at cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses if applicable on the same basis as intangible assets that are acquired separately. intangible assets having an indefinite life are not amortized and are therefore carried at cost reduced by previous impairment losses if applicable. derecognition of intangible assets an intangible asset is derecognized on disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from use or disposal. gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset are recognized in profit or loss when the asset is derecognized. the company currently carries the following intangible assets in its books franchise rights the franchise rights acquired through business combinations are recognized at the fair value of the estimated future cash inflows related to the acquisition of franchises. the franchise rights are generally amortized on a straight line basis over the term of the agreements which typically range between to years. trademarks trademarks acquired through business combinations are recognized at their fair value at the time of the acquisition and are not amortized. trademarks are determined to have an indefinite useful life based on their brand recognition and their ability to generate revenue through changing economic conditions with no foreseeable time limit. other included in other intangible assets are purchased software and liquor licences which are being amortized over their expected useful life on a straight line basis. impairment of long lived assets other than goodwill the company continually reviews whether events or circumstances subsequent to the acquisition of any long lived assets including intangible assets with finite useful lives have occurred that indicate the remaining estimated useful lives of those assets may warrant revision or that the remaining balance of those assets may not be recoverable. if events and circumstances indicate that the long lived assets should be reviewed for possible impairment the company uses projections to assess whether future cash flows on an undiscounted basis related to the assets exceed the recorded carrying amount of those assets to determine if an asset is impaired. should an impairment be identified a loss would be recorded to the extent that the carrying value of the impaired assets exceeds their fair values as determined by valuation techniques appropriate in the circumstances that could include the use of similar cash flow projections on a discounted basis. the reporting units of indefinite intangible assets are individual brands comprised of franchise rights trademarks and perpetual licenses. mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. significant accounting policies continued impairment of goodwill for the purposes of impairment testing goodwill is allocated to the unit or group of units reporting unit that are considered to represent the lowest level within the group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. as at november goodwill is allocated as follows reporting unit description us excluding papa murphy and bbq holdings group of units comprised of acquired brands in the us excluding the papa murphy papa murphy and bbq holdings incorporated bbq holdings brands papa murphy one unit comprised of the papa murphy brand bbq holdings group of units comprised of the bbq holdings brands goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis august for the company and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. fair value is determined using a discounted cash flow methodology with a risk adjusted weighted average cost of capital. cash and restricted cash cash and restricted cash include cash on hand and short term investments if any with maturities upon acquisition of generally three months or less or that are redeemable at any time at full value and for which the risk of a change in value is not significant. as at november cash and restricted cash included of restricted cash and that is required as part of guarantees on certain lease commitments. inventories inventories are measured at the lower of cost and market value. costs of inventories are determined on a first in first out basis and include acquisition costs and other costs incurred to bring inventories to their present location and condition. market value represents the current replacement cost provided that the cost does not exceed the net realizable value or is not less than the net realizable value reduced by a normal profit margin. contingencies litigation disputes and closed stores provisions for the expected cost of litigation disputes and the cost of settling leases for closed stores with the exception of operating lease liabilities already recorded pursuant to asc are recognized when it becomes probable the company will be required to settle the obligation at management best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the company obligation. mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. significant accounting policies continued contingencies continued contingent liabilities acquired in a business combination contingent liabilities acquired in a business combination are initially measured at fair value at the acquisition date. at the end of subsequent reporting periods such contingent liabilities are measured at the higher of the amount that would be recognized and the amount initially recognized less cumulative amortization recognized if any. financial instruments the company financial instruments consist of cash restricted cash accounts receivable loans receivable receivable from company under common control receivable from ultimate parent accounts payable accrued liabilities promotional funds payable advance from parent company advances from companies under common control long term loan from company under common control and holdbacks payable. unless otherwise noted it is management opinion that the company is not exposed to significant interest currency or credit risks arising from these financial instruments. the fair values for cash restricted cash accounts receivable loans receivable receivable from company under common control receivable from ultimate parent accounts payable accrued liabilities promotional funds payable advance from parent company and advances from companies under common control approximate their carrying values due to their immediate or short term maturities unless otherwise noted. the long term loan from company under common control advances from ultimate parent and holdbacks payable are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. promotional funds pursuant to the franchise agreements franchisees must pay a fee to the promotional funds. these amounts are collected by the company in its capacity as agent and must be used for promotional and advertising purposes since the amounts are set aside to promote the respective banners for the franchisees benefit. the promotional funds collected and the related expenditures are reported on a gross basis in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. to the extent that promotional funds received exceed the related promotional expenditures the excess contributions will be recorded in accounts payable or accrued liabilities. cash held pursuant to the promotional funds received are classified as unrestricted cash as there are no legal restrictions on the use of these funds however the company intends to use these funds solely to support the promotional funds rather than to fund its ongoing operations. as at november promotional funds were in a net liability position amounting to net liability position of net liability position of. subsequent events subsequent events were evaluated through the date that the consolidated financial statements were issued which was february. mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. significant accounting policies continued estimates and assumptions business combinations for business combinations the company must make assumptions and estimates to determine the purchase price accounting of the business being acquired. to do so the company must determine the acquisition date fair value of the identifiable assets acquired including such intangible assets as franchise rights and master franchise rights trademarks step in rights and liabilities assumed. among other things the determination of these fair market values involves the use of discounted cash flow analyses and future system sales growth. goodwill is measured as the excess of the fair value of the consideration transferred including the recognized amount of any non controlling interest in the acquiree over the net recognized amount of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed all measured at the acquisition date. these assumptions and estimates have an impact on the asset and liability amounts recorded in the consolidated balance sheets on the acquisition date. in addition the estimated useful lives of the acquired amortizable assets the identification of intangible assets and the determination of the indefinite or finite useful lives of intangible assets acquired will have an impact on the company future profit or loss. goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets the fair value calculation includes estimates of revenue growth which are based on past performance and internal projections for the intangible asset group forecasted growth and royalty rates which are adjusted for our particular facts and circumstances. the discount rate is selected based on the estimated cost of capital that reflects the risk profile of the related business. these estimates are highly subjective the ability to achieve the forecasted cash flows used in our fair value calculations is affected by factors such as the success of strategic initiatives changes in economic conditions changes in our operating performance and changes in our business strategies. contingencies the company makes assumptions and estimations based on its current knowledge of future disbursements it will have to make in connection with various events that have occurred in the past and for which the amount to be disbursed and the timing of such disbursement are uncertain at the date of producing its financial statements. this includes contingencies for onerous contracts litigations and disputes and other contingencies. gift card liabilities management is required to make certain assumptions in both the prorated recognition based on redemption pattern and remoteness recognition of gift card breakage. the significant estimates are breakage rate and the redemption patterns. mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. significant accounting policies continued estimates and assumptions continued impact of covid during the year ended november the covid pandemic continued to impact the markets in which mty united states of america usa or and its franchise partners and suppliers operate. the beginning of the year saw the spread of the omicron variant which impacted certain markets with additional government mandated restrictions. however over the following months such restrictions were gradually eased with most government imposed restrictions lifted in the second quarter in most of the markets in which mty united states of america usa or operates. the continuing vaccination campaigns including the administration of boosters and the gradual expansion of the coverage of the population allowed those markets to mostly remain open in the second half of the year with small disruptions in certain areas. although there is uncertainty surrounding the effects that the lifting of restrictions will have on the number of infections and the potential emergence of new variants the current situation appears to highlight a familiar sense of back to normal with the longer term impact on the economy and the rules and restrictions that will apply to mty united states of america usa or restaurants. as a result of the continued and uncertain economic and business impacts of the covid pandemic the company continues to monitor the estimates judgments and assumptions used in the financial statements. for the year ended november the company determined that there were no specific triggers for impairment assessments attributable to covid. accordingly the company did not record impairment charges on its property plant and equipment intangible assets and goodwill in the period attributable to covid. these estimates judgments and assumptions are subject to change. mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. changes in accounting policies asu financial instruments asu in june the fasb issued asu number measurement of credit losses on financial instruments which revised guidance for the accounting for credit losses on financial instruments within its scope and through march issued asus that amended the standard asu number asu number asu number asu number and asu number the new standard introduced an approach based on expected losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments and modified the impairment model for available for sale debt securities. the new approach to estimating credit losses referred to as the current expected credit losses model applies to most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments notably trade and other receivables and loans. for the company this asu was effective december but the company chose to early adopt this asu on december and it did not have a material impact due to the nature and extent of the company financial instruments in scope for this asu primarily trade receivables and the historical current and expected credit quality of its customers as of the date of adoption. asu leases topic asu the early adoption of asc on december had a material impact on the company assets and liabilities due to the recognition of operating lease right of use assets and operating lease liabilities on its consolidated balance sheets. the company elected to adopt asc using the retrospective method using december as the date of initial application. as such the company has adjusted the comparative periods for its and financial years. the company elected to apply the package of practical expedients under which it has not reassess the classification of its existing leases re evaluate whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases or reassessed initial direct costs under the new guidance. additionally the company has elected lessee and lessor practical expedients to not separate non lease components from lease components. the company did not elect the practical expedient that permits a reassessment of lease terms for existing leases. the company has also made an accounting policy election to keep leases with an initial term of months or less off the balance sheet. the impacts on each financial year are outlined in the tables below. mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. changes in accounting policies continued asu leases topic asu continued as previously reported under asc asc adoption as previously reported under asc restated as previously reported under asc restated consolidated balance sheets november december november november november november assets prepaid expenses and deposits operating lease right of use assets other assets liabilities and stockholder equity current liabilities accrued liabilities current portion of operating lease liabilities operating lease liabilities deferred income taxes retained earnings asc adoption adjustments asc adoption adjustments asc adoption adjustments mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. changes in accounting policies continued asu leases topic asu continued as previously reported under asc restated as previously reported under asc restated consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income loss year ended november year ended november year ended november year ended november costs and expenses operating expenses impairment charge operating lease right of use assets other income gain on delaware recognition lease modification of operating lease liabilities income tax recovery deferred net loss income and comprehensive loss income asc adoption adjustments asc adoption adjustments mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. business acquisition bbq holdings on september the company completed its acquisition of all of the issued and outstanding common shares of bbq holdings. bbq holdings is a franchisor and operator of casual and fast casual dining restaurants across states in the us canada and the united arab emirates. as of the date of the acquisition bbq holdings was operating over franchised and over corporate owned restaurants under nine different brands. the purpose of the transaction was to diversify the company range of offerings in the us as well as to bring proficiency in operating corporate owned restaurants. the transaction included a purchase consideration totaling repayment of long term debt of and early cash settlement of stock options and restricted stock units of as detailed below. the payment of stock options and restricted stock units was settled with cash acquired from bbq holdings. the company has not yet completed its fair value assessment of all assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with the bbq holdings acquisition. the most significant aspects remaining to be finalized relate to the valuation of property plant and equipment franchise rights trademarks gift card liability and deferred income taxes. consequently the table below presents management preliminary assessment of the fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. the final determination of the fair values will be made within months of the acquisition date. accordingly the following values and goodwill are subject to change and such changes may be material. consideration paid cash amount paid for early settlement of options total consideration mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. business acquisition continued bbq holdings continued the preliminary purchase price allocation is as follows net assets acquired current assets cash accounts receivable inventories prepaid expenses and deposits income taxes receivable loans receivable other assets property plant and equipment operating lease right of use assets intangible assets franchise rights intangible assets trademarks intangible assets other goodwill current liabilities accounts payable accrued liabilities gift card liability current portion of operating lease liabilities current portion of deferred revenues other liabilities operating lease liabilities deferred income taxes net purchase price goodwill is deductible for tax purposes. total expenses incurred related to acquisition costs amounted to. mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. accounts receivable details of accounts receivable are as follows total accounts receivable less allowance for credit losses total accounts receivable net of which not past due past due for more than one day but no more than days past due for more than days but no more than days past due for more than days total accounts receivable net allowance for credit losses beginning of year current period recovery provision additions through business acquisition note reversal of amounts previously written off write offs allowance for credit losses end of year. assets held for sale assets held for sale as at november are stated at fair value less costs to sell and are comprised of one location leasehold improvements land and building that were acquired with bbq holdings and that were transferred from property plant and equipment note. they did not meet the definition of assets held for sale as at the acquisition date of bbq holdings. mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. loans receivable loans receivable generally result from the sales of franchises and of various advances to certain franchisees and consist of the following loans receivable bearing interest between and per annum receivable in monthly instalments of in aggregate including principal and interest ending in current portion the total allowance for uncollectible amounts on loans receivable amounted to as at november. the capital repayments in subsequent years will be thereafter mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. leases operating lease right of use assets the following table provides the net carrying amounts of the operating lease right of use assets by class of underlying asset and the changes in the years ended november and offices and stores other total balance as at december additions depreciation expense impairment charge delaware recognition lease modifications balance as at november additions depreciation expense impairment charge delaware recognition lease modifications balance as at november additions additions through business acquisition note depreciation expense impairment charge delaware recognition lease modifications balance as at november the company recorded sublease income from its operating lease right of use assets amounting to. mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. leases continued operating lease liabilities the following table provides the net carrying amounts of the operating lease liabilities and the changes in the years ended november and operating lease liabilities balance as at december additions lease renewals and modifications lease terminations interest expense payments balance as at november additions lease renewals and modifications lease terminations other adjustments interest expense payments balance as at november additions additions through business acquisition note lease renewals and modifications lease terminations other adjustments interest expense payments balance as at november recorded in the consolidated balance sheets as follows operating lease liabilities current portion long term portion november current portion long term portion november current portion long term portion november mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. leases continued maturity analysis the following table sets out a maturity analysis of lease payments showing the undiscounted lease payments to be paid after november leases expected sublease income thereafter total undiscounted lease payments less unearned finance income total present value of lease liabilities and expected sublease income mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. property plant and equipment cost equipment leasehold improve ments rolling stock computer hardware land building total balance as at november additions dispositions impairment note balance as at november additions dispositions impairment note balance as at november additions through business acquisition note additions dispositions impairment note transfer to assets held for sale balance as at november accumulated depreciation equipment leasehold improve ments rolling stock computer hardware land building total balance as at november depreciation expense dispositions balance as at november depreciation expense dispositions balance as at november depreciation expense dispositions balance as at november mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. property plant and equipment continued carrying amounts equipment leasehold improve ments rolling stock computer hardware land building total november november november. divestitures during the year ended november the company did not dispose of any portfolio of corporately owned locations. during the year ended november the company disposed of two portfolios comprised of seven and twenty four corporately owned locations that were refranchised upon completion of the sale. during the year ended november the company received a total consideration of for both portfolios and recorded a gain on disposal of presented in gain loss on disposal of property plant equipment and assets held for sale in its consolidated statement of operations. as at november the company had recorded a liability for marketing and material defect expenditures of as accrued liabilities on the company consolidated balance sheets. during the year ended november the company disposed of two portfolios comprised of seven and nine corporately owned locations that were refranchised upon completion of the sale. during the year ended november the company received a total consideration of for both portfolios and recorded a loss on disposal of presented in gain loss on disposal of property plant equipment and assets held for sale in its consolidated statement of operations. these dispositions did not meet the criteria for accounting as a discontinued operation. mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. intangible assets cost franchise rights trademarks other total balance as at november additions impairment note balance as at november additions impairment note balance as at november additions additions through business acquisition note impairment note balance as at november accumulated amortization franchise rights trademarks other total balance as at november amortization expense balance as at november amortization expense balance as at november amortization expense balance as at november carrying amounts franchise rights trademarks other total november november november mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. goodwill the changes in the carrying amount of goodwill are as follows goodwill beginning of year amount recognized from business acquisition note purchase price allocation adjustments goodwill end of year accumulated impairment beginning of year impairment note accumulated impairment end of year carrying amount. impairment the company performed its annual impairment test as at august with the exception of bbq holdings which was performed as at november. the impairment test of bbq holdings was based on qualitative factors which did not give rise to any indications of impairment. the company impairment test as at august resulted in the recognition of of impairment losses on its intangible assets for three of its brands three brands brands following indicators of impairment that were noted. additionally the company recorded of impairment losses on its property plant and equipment and did not record any impairment on goodwill nil for a total of of impairment charges on its property plant and equipment intangible assets and goodwill for the year ended november which have been recognized in the consolidated statement of operations. impairment charges were based on the amount by which the carrying values of the assets exceeded recoverable amounts determined using expected discounted projected operating cash flows for trademarks and franchise rights. mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. impairment continued impairment by reporting unit for the year ended november property plant and equipment franchise rights trademarks total us excluding papa murphy and bbq holdings papa murphy bbq holdings intangibles impairment by reporting unit for the year ended november property plant and equipment franchise rights trademarks total us excluding papa murphy papa murphy intangibles impairment by reporting unit for the year ended november property plant and equipment franchise rights trademarks goodwill total us excluding papa murphy papa murphy intangibles the key assumptions used where the recoverable amount was measured as a reporting unit fair value are those related to projected operating cash flows as well as the discount rates. the sales forecasts for cash flows were based on the subsequent fiscal year budgeted operating results which were prepared by management and approved by the board and internal forecasts for subsequent years which were prepared by management and developed from the budgeted operating results. mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. impairment continued the following table presents the key assumptions used in the company impairment tests as well as the recoverable amounts measured at fair value as at august and except percentage data us excluding papa murphy and bbq holdings papa murphy us excluding papa murphy papa murphy us excluding papa murphy papa murphy discount rates after tax. discount rates pre tax. recoverable amounts long term growth rates ranging from to and to were used in the impairment test for the us excluding papa murphy and bbq holdings. change of basis points in discount rates in the us excluding papa murphy and bbq holdings would result in additional impairment charges on intangible assets of four brands three brands brands representing. of the total carrying value of the franchise rights and trademarks in that unit. change of basis points in discount rates in the us excluding papa murphy and bbq holdings would not result in additional impairment charges on goodwill for the year ended november nil additional impairment charges on goodwill representing. of the total carrying value of goodwill in that unit. for the us excluding papa murphy and bbq holdings reporting unit an increase of basis points basis points basis points in the discount rate would have resulted in its recoverable amount being equal to its carrying value. long term growth rate of. and. was used in the impairment test for papa murphy. change of basis points in discount rates in papa murphy would not result in additional impairment charges on intangible assets or goodwill for the years ended november and. for the papa murphy reporting unit an increase of basis points basis points basis points in the discount rate would have resulted in its recoverable amount being equal to its carrying value. mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. gift card liability the changes in the carrying amount of the gift card liability are as follows gift card liability beginning of year activations during the year redemptions during the year gift card liability acquired note deferred program fees and other gift card breakage recorded gift card liability end of year. deferred revenue and deposits franchise fee deposits unearned rent supplier contributions and other allowances current portion deferred revenues consist mostly of initial transfer and renewal franchise fees paid by franchisees as well as upfront fees paid by master franchisees which are generally recognized on a straight line basis over the term of the related agreement. deferred revenues also include amounts paid in upfront fees received from agreements with suppliers which are amortized over the term of the related agreement. of revenue recognized in the current year was included in the deferred revenue balance at the beginning of the year. mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. deferred revenue and deposits continued the following table provides estimated revenues expected to be recognized in future years related to performance obligations that are unsatisfied as at november estimate for fiscal year thereafter. receivables and advances from ultimate parent parent company and companies under common control the receivable from ultimate parent is primarily comprised of a renewable one year term loan facility of. the term loan is unsecured and bears interest at the rate set at the applicable federal rates as issued by the us internal revenue service for short term instruments. the term loan may be repaid in whole or in part at any time without premium or penalty. mty united states of america usa or may also request repayment in whole or in part at any time without penalty. the advance from ultimate parent is primarily comprised of a loan of and nil due september. the loan is unsecured and bears interest at. the term loan may be repaid in whole or in part at any time without premium or penalty. the receivable from company under common control and advances from parent company and companies under common control are non interest bearing and receivable due on demand with no specified collection repayment terms. long term loan from company under common control interest bearing loan at. repayable by november the loan is subject to a maximum debt to ebitda ratio of. starting on november and a minimum ebitda interest coverage ratio of. to be calculated in conjunction with interest payments based on the past months. mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. holdbacks payable non interest bearing holdback acquired on acquisition of the counter repayable in december non interest bearing holdback acquired on acquisition of sweetfrog repayable in september non interest bearing holdback acquired on acquisition of kahala repayable in august current portion of holdbacks payable during the year ended november the company reclassified non interest bearing holdbacks acquired on acquisition of kahala brands limited that were previously being applied to an income tax payable related to the acquisition of kahala brands limited the holdbacks were repaid during the year ended november. contingencies the contingencies for litigation and disputes represent management best estimate of the outcome of litigations and disputes that are ongoing at the date of the consolidated balance sheet. these contingencies consist of multiple items the timing of the settlement of these contingencies is unknown given their nature as the company does not control the litigation timelines. the payables related to closed stores mainly represent amounts that are expected to be disbursed to exit leases of underperforming or closed stores. the negotiations with the various stakeholders are typically short in duration and are expected to be settled within a few months following the recognition of the provision. the company has recognized a liability of nil and both restated nil for the leases of premises in which it no longer has operations but retains the obligations contained in the lease agreement with the exception of leases for which the operating lease liabilities are already recorded pursuant to asc. adjusted note adjsuted note provision for litigation disputes and other contingencies beginning of year reversals purchase price allocation adjustment amounts used additions provision for litigation disputes and other contingencies end of year mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. common stock shares issued shares issued shares issued balance beginning and end of year. financial instruments in the normal course of business the company uses various financial instruments which by their nature involve risk including market risk and the credit risk of non performance by counterparties. these financial instruments are subject to normal credit standards financial controls risk management as well as monitoring procedures. fair value of recognized financial instruments the company has determined that the fair value of its financial assets and financial liabilities with short term maturities approximates their carrying value. these financial instruments include cash restricted cash accrued liabilities promotional funds payable and advances from parent company and from companies under common control. the table below shows the fair value and the carrying value of other financial instruments as at november and. since estimates are used to determine fair value they must not be interpreted as being realizable in the event of a settlement of the instruments. carrying fair carrying fair carrying fair amount value amount value amount value financial assets loans receivable determination of fair value the following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values of each class of financial instruments cash restricted cash accounts receivable receivable from ultimate parent deposits accounts payable accrued liabilities advance from parent company advances from companies under common control the carrying amounts approximate fair values due to the short maturity of these financial instruments. risk management policies the company through its financial assets and financial liabilities is exposed to various risks. the following analysis provides a measurement of risks as at november. mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. financial instruments continued risk management policies continued credit risk the company credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables loans receivable and deposits. for accounts receivable and loans receivable the amounts disclosed on the consolidated balance sheets are net of allowances for bad debts estimated by the company management based on past experience and counterparty specific circumstances. the company believes that the credit risk of accounts receivable is limited for the following reasons the company broad client base is spread mostly across the us which limits the concentration of credit risk. the company accounts for specific bad debt provisions when management considers that the expected recovery is less than the actual account receivable. the credit risk on cash is limited because the company invests its excess liquidity in high quality financial instruments and with credit worthy counterparties. the credit risk on deposits is also limited as these are mostly with well established and credit worthy companies. interest rate risk interest rate risk is the company exposure to increases and decreases in financial instrument values caused by the fluctuation in interest rates. the company has limited exposure to interest rate risk as its long term loans from company under common control and ultimate parent as well as its long term debt have fixed interest rates. revenue franchising corporate total corporate store revenues royalties franchise fees transfer fees and master license fees promotional funds program allowances breakage income resale material and retail sales other mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. revenue continued franchising corporate total corporate store revenues royalties franchise fees transfer fees and master license fees promotional funds program allowances breakage income resale material and retail sales other franchising corporate total corporate store revenues royalties franchise fees transfer fees and master license fees promotional funds program allowances breakage income resale material and retail sales other. operating expenses franchising corporate total cost of goods sold wages and benefits advertising marketing and promotion rent professional consulting fees and commission office travel meals entertainment and utilities promotional funds gift card program costs other bad debt recovery expense mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. operating expenses continued franchising corporate total cost of goods sold wages and benefits advertising marketing and promotion rent adjusted note professional consulting fees and commission office travel meals entertainment and utilities promotional funds gift card program costs other bad debt recovery expense franchising corporate total cost of goods sold wages and benefits advertising marketing and promotion rent adjusted note professional consulting fees and commission office travel meals entertainment and utilities promotional funds gift card program costs other bad debt expense franchising operations the franchising business mainly generates revenues from royalties supplier contributions franchise fees and rent. corporate store operations corporate stores generate revenues from the direct sale of prepared food to customers. mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. interest expense interest charged by ultimate parent company note interest charged by companies under common control note accreted interest expense on interest bearing holdbacks interest expense. income taxes the company accounts for income taxes in accordance with asc. asc prescribes the use of the liability method whereby deferred tax asset and liability account balances are determined based on differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates. the effects of future changes in tax laws or rates are not anticipated. under asc income taxes are recognized for the following a amount of tax payable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for future tax consequences of events that have been recognized differently in the consolidated financial statements than for tax purposes. income tax expense recovery adjusted adjusted note note current tax expense deferred tax recovery total tax expense recovery mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. income taxes continued the provision for income taxes recorded in the consolidated financial statements differs from the amount which would be obtained by applying the statutory federal income tax rate of and to the income for the period as follows adjusted adjusted note note income loss before income taxes income tax expense recovery at federal statutory rate state and local income taxes net of federal tax benefit non deductible non taxable items temporary difference for which no deferred tax asset is recognized true up of prior year tax provision rate variation on deferred income tax revision of estimates for tax exposures general business credit other income tax expense recovery mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. income taxes continued components of the net deferred tax asset liability adjusted adjusted note note inventory allowance for doubtful accounts deferred revenue gift cards accrued liabilities non capital losses and other tax credits other operating lease liabilities total deferred tax assets deferred costs property plant and equipment operating lease right of use assets intangible assets long term debt total deferred tax liabilities net deferred tax liability. supplemental cash flow information during the year ended november the company paid in income taxes. furthermore there are non cash item included in the proceeds on disposition amounting to nil. during the year ended november the change in income taxes in operating activities in the consolidated statement of cash flows included the reclassification of a holdback payable and nil. related party transactions the company has transactions in the normal course of business with its ultimate parent parent company and companies under common control. these transactions were in the normal course of business and measured at the exchange amount which is the amount of consideration established and agreed to by the related parties. mty franchising united states of america usa or incorporated notes to the consolidated financial statements years ended november and in thousands of us dollars page. subsequent events acquisition of wetzel pretzels on december the company completed its acquisition of all of the issued and outstanding shares of cop wp parent incorporated wetzel pretzels a franchisor and operator of quick service restaurants operating in the snack category across states in the us as well as in canada and panama for a cash consideration of approximately on a cash free debt free basis. at closing there were franchised restaurants and corporate owned restaurants in operation. acquisition of sauce pizza and wine on december one of the company wholly owned subsidiaries completed its acquisition of the assets of sauce pizza and wine an operator of fast casual restaurants operating in the state of arizona for a total consideration of including a holdback on acquisition of. at closing there were corporate owned restaurants in operation. exhibit to the franchise disclosure document performance guaranty exhibit to the franchise disclosure document addendum for sale of company affiliated owned stores addendum for sale of company affiliated owned stores below is information covering the last five fiscal years on a previously owned franchised outlet now under the control of an affiliate of franchisor. address of outlet for sale previous franchise owner name city state telephone number time period outlet was controlled by previous franchise owner reason for change in ownership previous franchise owner if applicable name city state telephone number time period outlet was controlled by previous franchise owner reason for change in ownership previous franchise owner if applicable name city state telephone number time period outlet was controlled by previous franchise owner reason for change in ownership note the telephone number of the previous franchise owner listed above is the current business telephone number or if unknown the last home telephone number franchisor had for the previous franchise owner. the time period when affiliate of franchisor retained control of the outlet date do not leave blank signature of prospective franchisee print name addendum for sale of company affiliated owned stores must be signed and dated and remains in the franchise disclosure document as the prospective franchisee copy. addendum for sale of company affiliated owned stores must be signed and dated by the prospective franchisee and returned to kahala franchising. either by mailing it to kahala franchising. at. via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona or faxing it to kahala franchising. at. addendum for sale of company affiliated owned stores below is information covering the last five fiscal years on a previously owned franchised outlet now under the control of an affiliate of franchisor. address of outlet for sale previous franchise owner name city state telephone number time period outlet was controlled by previous franchise owner reason for change in ownership previous franchise owner if applicable name city state telephone number time period outlet was controlled by previous franchise owner reason for change in ownership previous franchise owner if applicable name city state telephone number time period outlet was controlled by previous franchise owner reason for change in ownership note the telephone number of the previous franchise owner listed above is the current business telephone number or if unknown the last home telephone number franchisor had for the previous franchise owner. the time period when affiliate of franchisor retained control of the outlet date do not leave blank signature of prospective franchisee print name addendum for sale of company affiliated owned stores must be signed and dated and remains in the franchise disclosure document as the prospective franchisee copy. addendum for sale of company affiliated owned stores must be signed and dated by the prospective franchisee and returned to kahala franchising. either by mailing it to kahala franchising. at. via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona or faxing it to kahala franchising. at. exhibit to the franchise disclosure document state effective dates cold stone creamery state effective dates the following states have franchise laws that require that the franchise disclosure document be registered or filed with the state or be exempt from registration california hawaii illinois indiana maryland michigan minnesota new york north dakota rhode island south dakota virginia washington and wisconsin. this document is effective and may be used in the following states where the document is filed registered or exempt from registration as of the effective date stated below california march hawaii pending illinois march indiana march maryland pending michigan pending minnesota pending new york march north dakota pending rhode island pending south dakota pending virginia pending washington pending wisconsin pending other states may require registration filing or exemption of a franchise under other laws such as those that regulate the offer and sale of business opportunities or seller assisted marketing plans. csc fdd verb exhibit to the franchise disclosure document receipts csc fdd verb receipt this disclosure document summarizes certain provisions of the franchise agreement and other information in plain language. read this disclosure document and all agreements carefully. if kahala franchising. offers you a franchise it must provide this disclosure document to you calendar days before you sign a binding agreement with or make a payment to the franchisor or an affiliate in connection with the proposed franchise sale. new york requires that we give you this disclosure document at the earlier of the first personal meeting or business days before the execution of the franchise or other agreement or the payment of any consideration that relates to the franchise relationship. michigan requires that we give you this disclosure document at least business days before the execution of any binding franchise or other agreement or the payment of any consideration whichever occurs first. if kahala franchising. does not deliver this disclosure document on time or if it contains a false or misleading statement or a material omission a violation of federal law and state law may have occurred and should be reported to the federal trade commission washington district of columbia and the state agency listed on exhibit. the franchisor is kahala franchising. located at. via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona. its telephone number island the franchise seller for this offering island issuance date march. kahala franchising. authorizes the respective state agencies identified on exhibit to receive service of process for it in the particular state. received a cold stone creamery disclosure document dated march that included the following exhibits state addenda to franchise disclosure document lease guaranty acknowledgement directory of state agencies and administrators lease review and or negotiation agreement and release and state addenda franchisor agent for service of process sublease and guaranty of sublease franchisee pays rent directly to landlord asset purchase agreement for sale of a corporate store to a franchisee with promissory note security agreement and guaranty if applicable sublease and guaranty of sublease franchisor or its affiliate collects rent from franchisee and pays to landlord franchise agreement new pre authorized electronic funds transfer form franchise agreement renewal participation agreement franchise agreement transfer general release for renewal of franchise agreement guaranty of franchise agreement consent to transfer and release agreement without sublease non disclosure and non competition agreement consent to transfer and release agreement with sublease collateral assignment and irrevocable special power of attorney state specific addenda to franchise documents amendment to franchise agreement for non traditional locations excluding those colorado branded with another affiliated brand table of contents confidential operations manual rocky mountain chocolate factory addendum to franchise disclosure document and amendment to franchise agreement list of franchise owners amendment to franchise agreement for colorado branded non traditional locations financial statements in store training release and waiver of liability agreement performance guaranty addendum to the franchise agreement for sba loans addendum for sale of company affiliated owned stores required lease terms lease addendum to lease agreement state effective dates rmcf required lease terms lease addendum to lease agreement receipts date do not leave blank signature of prospective franchisee print name receipt must be signed and dated and remains in the franchise disclosure document as the prospective franchisee copy. receipt must be signed and dated by the prospective franchisee and returned to kahala franchising. by mailing it to kahala franchising. at. via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona. csc fdd verb receipt this disclosure document summarizes certain provisions of the franchise agreement and other information in plain language. read this disclosure document and all agreements carefully. if kahala franchising. offers you a franchise it must provide this disclosure document to you calendar days before you sign a binding agreement with or make a payment to the franchisor or an affiliate in connection with the proposed franchise sale. new york requires that we give you this disclosure document at the earlier of the first personal meeting or business days before the execution of the franchise or other agreement or the payment of any consideration that relates to the franchise relationship. michigan requires that we give you this disclosure document at least business days before the execution of any binding franchise or other agreement or the payment of any consideration whichever occurs first. if kahala franchising. does not deliver this disclosure document on time or if it contains a false or misleading statement or a material omission a violation of federal law and state law may have occurred and should be reported to the federal trade commission washington district of columbia and the state agency listed on exhibit. the franchisor is kahala franchising. located at. via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona. its telephone number island the franchise seller for this offering island issuance date march. kahala franchising. authorizes the respective state agencies identified on exhibit to receive service of process for it in the particular state. received a cold stone creamery disclosure document dated march that included the following exhibits state addenda to franchise disclosure document lease guaranty acknowledgement directory of state agencies and administrators lease review and or negotiation agreement and release and state addenda franchisor agent for service of process sublease and guaranty of sublease franchisee pays rent directly to landlord asset purchase agreement for sale of a corporate store to a franchisee with promissory note security agreement and guaranty if applicable sublease and guaranty of sublease franchisor or its affilate collects rent from franchisee and pays to landlord franchise agreement new pre authorized electronic funds transfer form franchise agreement renewal participation agreement franchise agreement transfer general release for renewal of franchise agreement guaranty of franchise agreement consent to transfer and release agreement without sublease non disclosure and non competition agreement consent to transfer and release agreement with sublease collateral assignment and irrevocable special power of attorney state specific addenda to franchise documents amendment to franchise agreement for non traditional locations excluding those colorado branded with another affiliated brand table of contents confidential operations manual rocky mountain chocolate factory addendum to franchise disclosure document and amendment to franchise agreement list of franchise owners amendment to franchise agreement for colorado branded non traditional locations financial statements in store training release and waiver of liability agreement performance guaranty addendum to the franchise agreement for sba loans addendum for sale of company affiliated owned stores required lease terms lease addendum to lease agreement state effective dates rmcf required lease terms lease addendum to lease agreement receipts date do not leave blank signature of prospective franchisee print name receipt must be signed and dated and remains in the franchise disclosure document as the prospective franchisee copy. receipt must be signed and dated by the prospective franchisee and returned to kahala franchising. by mailing it to kahala franchising. at. via delaware ventura scottsdale arizona. a csc logo cover page how to use this franchise disclosure document what you need to know about franchising generally some states require registration special risks to consider about this franchise d csc fdd item the franchisor and any parents predecessors and affiliates item business experience item litigation item bankruptcy item initial fees item other fees item estimated initial investment item restrictions on sources of products and services item franchisee obligations item financing item franchisor assistance advertising computer systems and training item territory item trademarks item patents copyrights and proprietary information item obligation to participate in the actual operation of the franchise business item restrictions on what the franchisee may sell item renewal termination transfer and dispute resolution item public figures item financial performance representations item outlets and franchisee information item financial statements item contracts item receipts east gen exhibit fdd state addenda disclosure document required by the state of indiana information comparing franchisors is available. call the state administrators listed in exhibit or your public library for sources of information. registration of this franchise by new york state does not mean that new york state recommends it or. disclosure document required by the state of rhode island disclosure document required by the state of washington folio unit kflform directory of agencies g gen agent for service of process kfl a unit gen apa csc. promise to pay. for value received name a corporation limited liability company individual maker promises to pay to the order of holder entity a state corporation limited liability company et cetera holder at. computation of interest. except as otherwise set forth in this note this note shall not bear interest or bear interest at the rate of per annum based on a month year amortization schedule. required payments method of payment. principal and interest if any shall be repaid to holder in a total of xx weekly monthly installments consisting of the first xx installments in the amount of and xx dol. application of payments. all payments and other credits due under this note shall be applied if part of note balance a non refundable fee i first to the amount of principal allocated to the initial franchisee fee renewal fee transfer fee i collection costs. if suit arbitration or other legal proceeding or any non judicial foreclosure proceeding is instituted or any other action is taken by holder to collect all or any part of the indebtedness evidenced hereby or to proceed against. optional prepayments. maker shall have the option to prepay this note in full or in part at any time and from time to time without penalty. maker shall identify each optional prepayment of principal as such by written notice to holder at the. security interest. the indebtedness evidenced by this note shall be secured by and maker hereby grants to holder a security interest in the equipment inventory leasehold improvements and all proceeds thereof and all increases additions account guaranty of promissory note and security agreement. if maker is an individual and married maker represents and warrants that maker obligations under this note are guaranteed by maker spouse and or any other individuals requested by holder american somoa maker representations and warranties. maker represents and warrants the following. waivers and acknowledgments. maker and any sureties endorsers and guarantors of all or any portion of the indebtedness evidenced by this note waive a demand notice diligence protest presentment for payment and notice of extension dish. default take back rights and additional remedies. take back rights. in the event of a payment default maker hereby grants holder the following take back rights as defined below in this section. with respect to the store. maker shall have seven days after receipt of written noti. acceleration in the event of default. in the event of any default including a payment default under this note which is not cured within seven calendar days after receipt of written notice from holder the principal sum hereof together with. default interest. after maturity including maturity upon acceleration as described in section above or at any time that maker is more than seven calendar days delinquent in the payment of money as required by this note whether or not ho. indemnity. maker shall indemnify defend and hold holder harmless for from and against any and all claims expenses and reasonable attorneys fees actually incurred by holder concerning or arising from the collateral this note or maker breac. no waiver by holder. failure of the holder to exercise any option hereunder shall not constitute a waiver of the right to exercise the same in the event of any subsequent default or in the event of continuance of any existing default after demand. time of essence. time is of the essence of this note. notices. all notices required or permitted to be given by either party pursuant to this note shall be in writing and given by a hand delivery express overnight delivery service or certified or registered mail return receipt requested. governing law. this note shall be construed according to the substantive laws and judicial decisions of the state of arizona without regard to any conflict of laws principles. any action brought to enforce this note may be commenced and maintai. release. in exchange for holder agreement to arrange for maker payment of the debt maker and each of its current past and future predecessors successors and assigns and each of its and the foregoing entities respective parents subsidiar. it is understood by maker that if the facts or law with respect to the foregoing release hereafter turn out to be different from the facts or law known to be or believed by maker to be true at the time of execution of this note then maker expressly a counterparts signatures. this note may be executed in one or more counterparts each of which shall be deemed to be an original copy of this note and all of which when taken together shall be deemed to constitute one and the same note. the sig. signature page follows in witness whereof maker by and through its respective representative with full rights power and authority to enter into and bind his or her respective party without further consent or approval of any kind has duly executed and delivered this note. b unit kflform gen fa new csc article. grant of franchise term system standards. franchise grant. location of the franchised business no exclusive territory or other rights. you must operate the franchised business only from the location including any catering services of cold stone creamery menu items you provide. you acknowledge that the cold stone creamery franchise granted under this agreement is non exclusive that. term of agreement. system standards. the operation and maintenance of your restaurant according to the system standards are essential to the well being and vitality of the system and to preserve the goodwill of the proprietary marks for us and for all other franchisees operating under th. article. selection of location construction and relocation. location selection procedures. lease and purchase approval. construction. signage. relocation. restricted use of restaurant location. not applicable. article. operations. commencing operations. supplies and promotional materials rollouts. fixtures furnishings and equipment. online presence. continuing working capital requirement. article. training assistance and start up materials. training program. employee training. additional programs continuing assistance. area representatives. confidential manual. computer systems debit and credit card processing. article. fees and deposits. initial franchise fee. royalty fee and surcharge. advertising fee. cooperative advertising. not applicable. depository account payment procedures. lease review fee. lease guarantee fee. additional persons training fee. additional training fee. document administration fee. renewal franchise fee. transfer franchise fee. relocation fee. not applicable. annual meeting registration fee. late report interest late charge non sufficient funds fee breaching royalties draft draw charge. audit fees. data fee. pos help desk phone support maintenance service fee. new supplier approval fee. reserved. non participation fee. grand opening marketing. through. not applicable. article. proprietary marks. ownership and right to use. covenants of franchise owners. limitations on franchisee use of proprietary marks. non exclusive license of proprietary marks. notification of infringement and claims. article. trade secrets and proprietary information. innovations. confidentiality agreement. article. relationship of the parties and indemnification. relationship of the parties. indemnification of franchisor. indemnification of franchisee. special power of attorney. article. operating standards and duties of franchise owner. compliance with system standards and confidential manual. authorized products and services. specifications and standards for supplies approved suppliers rollouts. compliance with legal requirements and good business practices. maintenance of insurance. management of the franchised business. inspections by franchisor. personal guaranty non disclosure and non competition agreement. not applicable. article. advertising and promotion. advertising by franchisor. advertising by franchisee. article. accounting procedures and reports. maintenance of records. audit by franchisor. article. transfer. prior consent of franchisor. advance notice of proposed terms and right of first refusal. requirement for consent to transfer. death or incapacity of individual franchisee change in entity. assignment by franchisor. restrictions on security interests and subfranchising. article. renewal a you must not then be in default under this agreement or any other agreement legal instrument or document with us or any of our affiliates and no event shall have occurred that with the giving of notice the passage of time or both would consti. you must be in complete compliance with the terms of this agreement including all financial obligations to us and the then current confidential manual. you must not have received more than three notices of default or breach of this agreement during its term nor more than two notices of default or breach during the five years immediately preceding the effective date of the proposed ren. you must have the existing right to maintain possession of the location or you must have secured and developed a suitable substitute location that meets our then current minimum site requirements such confirmation will be provided to you by us indiana you must sign a general release provided by us. you and we must execute all agreements legal instruments and other documents individually and collectively renewal documents then used by us in the renewal of franchises and then being required of new franchise owners in connection with the. the equipment fixtures and signage used in connection with the operation of the franchised business must either meet our then existing system specifications and standards or you must agree within a timeframe required by us to replace or refurbi. you agree to complete all remodeling and improvements as required by us and must upgrade the pos system to the then current required pos system within the time period specified by us and i you shall have paid to us the renewal franchise fee as required under section. article. default and termination. default termination. opportunity to cure. our right to take over management. remedies. effect of termination or expiration. a immediately pay to us or any affiliate of ours all sums owing from you to us or such affiliate including the royalty fee and advertising fee for any period prior to the date of termination the applicable early termination damages as defined indiana immediately cease to use in any manner whatsoever including in all advertising the proprietary marks any trade secrets any confidential information any benefits of the system or any part thereof any methods associated with the system any fo. immediately discontinue all advertising as a franchisee of the system and thereafter refrain from any advertising that would indicate that you are or ever were a franchisee or licensee of ours or otherwise were affiliated with us or the system. immediately take such steps as may be necessary or appropriate to. immediately take such action as may be required to cancel all fictitious or assumed names amend any entity name or dissolve any entity that contains any proprietary mark in whole or in part regardless of whether the entity name was authorized. comply with the confidentiality requirements and the covenant against competition in this agreement for the specified period. you acknowledge that you or if an entity your authorized representative has carefully reviewed the confidentiality re. maintain at a place made known to us all books records and reports required under this agreement for a period of not less than three years after the date of termination or expiration of this agreement to allow us to make a final inspection of. covenant not to compete conflicting interests. continuing obligations. remedies. early termination damages. article. notices article. construction and enforcement miscellaneous. independent contractors. severability and substitution of provisions. dispute resolution. applicable law and forum waiver of jury statute of limitations. no guarantee of franchisee success. existence of various forms of franchise agreements. franchise owner may not withhold payments. remedies are cumulative. interpretation. waiver. litigation expense. no third party beneficiaries. binding effect modification. entire agreement nature and scope construction. this agreement all exhibits attachments addendums and amendments constitute the entire understanding and agreement between the parties and there are no other oral or written understandings or agreements between us and you relating to the subject. nothing in this agreement or in any related agreement is intended to disclaim the representations we made in the disclosure document. nothing in this agreement is intended nor shall be deemed to confer any rights or remedies upon any person or lega. terminology. the term affiliate means any person who directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries controls is controlled by or is under common control with any person the term dollars means united states dollars and all amounts due under this agreement shall be paid in united states currency the use of the terms includes and including in any provision of this agreement followed by specific examples used shall not be construed to limit application of the provision to only the specific examples used the term person means any natural person corporation partnership trust other entity association or form of organization the term will and shall shall be synonymous and shall be mandatory and not discretionary unless otherwise specifically provided herein and any references to articles or sections refer to articles and sections in this agreement unless specified otherwise. counterparts. offerings. time. force majeure. plurals and captions. joint and several liability. trademark notice. no accord or satisfaction. article. acknowledgments and representations of franchisee. certain representations and warranties of franchisee. additional information respecting franchisee. acknowledgements of franchisee. article. submission of agreement personal acceptance of sections. and. b unit kflform gen fa renewal csc article. grant of franchise term system standards. franchise grant. location of the franchised business no exclusive territory or other rights. you must operate the franchised business only from the location including any catering services of cold stone creamery menu items you provide. you acknowledge that the cold stone creamery franchise granted under this agreement is non exclusive that. term of agreement. system standards. the operation and maintenance of your restaurant according to the system standards are essential to the well being and vitality of the system and to preserve the goodwill of the proprietary marks for us and for all other franchisees operating under th. article. selection of location construction and relocation. location selection procedures. lease and purchase approval. construction. signage. relocation. restricted use of restaurant location. not applicable. article. operations. not applicable. supplies and promotional materials rollouts. fixtures furnishings and equipment. online presence. continuing working capital requirement. article. training assistance and start up materials. training program. employee training. additional programs continuing assistance. area representatives. confidential manual. computer systems debit and credit card processing. article. fees and deposits. not applicable. royalty fee and surcharge. advertising fee. cooperative advertising. not applicable. depository account payment procedures. lease review fee. lease guarantee fee. not applicable. additional training fee. document administration fee. not applicable. transfer franchise fee. relocation fee. not applicable. annual meeting registration fee. late report interest late charge non sufficient funds fee breaching royalties draft draw charge. audit fees. data fee. pos help desk phone support maintenance service fee. new supplier approval fee. reserved. non participation fee. not applicable. through. not applicable. article. proprietary marks. ownership and right to use. covenants of franchise owners. limitations on franchisee use of proprietary marks. non exclusive license of proprietary marks. notification of infringement and claims. article. trade secrets and proprietary information. innovations. confidentiality agreement. article. relationship of the parties and indemnification. relationship of the parties. indemnification of franchisor. indemnification of franchisee. special power of attorney. article. operating standards and duties of franchise owner. compliance with system standards and confidential manual. authorized products and services. specifications and standards for supplies approved suppliers rollouts. compliance with legal requirements and good business practices. maintenance of insurance. management of the franchised business. inspections by franchisor. personal guaranty non disclosure and non competition agreement. not applicable. article. advertising and promotion. advertising by franchisor. advertising by franchisee. article. accounting procedures and reports. maintenance of records. audit by franchisor. article. transfer. prior consent of franchisor. advance notice of proposed terms and right of first refusal. requirement for consent to transfer. death or incapacity of individual franchisee change in entity. assignment by franchisor. restrictions on security interests and subfranchising. article. successor term a you must successfully complete the then current application process required of new franchisees. you must not then be in default under this agreement or any other agreement legal instrument or document with us or any of our affiliates and no event shall have occurred that with the giving of notice the passage of time or both would consti. you must be in complete compliance with the terms of this agreement including all financial obligations to us and the then current confidential manual. you must not have received more than three notices of default or breach of this agreement during its term nor more than two notices of default or breach during the five years immediately preceding the effective date of the proposed suc. you must have the existing right to maintain possession of the location or you must have secured and developed a suitable substitute location that meets our then current minimum site requirements such confirmation will be provided to you by us indiana you must sign a general release provided by us. you and we must execute all agreements legal instruments and other documents individually and collectively successor franchise documents then used by us in the granting of franchises and then being required of new franchise owners in connecti. the equipment fixtures and signage used in connection with the operation of the franchised business must either meet our then existing system specifications and standards or you must agree within a timeframe required by us to replace or refurbi. i you agree to complete all remodeling and improvements as required by us and must upgrade the pos system to the then current required pos system within the time period specified by us and. you shall have paid to us the then current initial franchise fee. article. default and termination. default termination. opportunity to cure. our right to take over management. remedies. effect of termination or expiration. a immediately pay to us or any affiliate of ours all sums owing from you to us or such affiliate including the royalty fee and advertising fee for any period prior to the date of termination the applicable early termination damages as defined indiana immediately cease to use in any manner whatsoever including in all advertising the proprietary marks any trade secrets any confidential information any benefits of the system or any part thereof any methods associated with the system any fo. immediately discontinue all advertising as a franchisee of the system and thereafter refrain from any advertising that would indicate that you are or ever were a franchisee or licensee of ours or otherwise were affiliated with us or the system. immediately take such steps as may be necessary or appropriate to. immediately take such action as may be required to cancel all fictitious or assumed names amend any entity name or dissolve any entity that contains any proprietary mark in whole or in part regardless of whether the entity name was authorized. comply with the confidentiality requirements and the covenant against competition in this agreement for the specified period. you acknowledge that you or if an entity your authorized representative has carefully reviewed the confidentiality re. maintain at a place made known to us all books records and reports required under this agreement for a period of not less than three years after the date of termination or expiration of this agreement to allow us to make a final inspection of. covenant not to compete conflicting interests. continuing obligations. remedies. early termination damages. article. notices article. construction and enforcement miscellaneous. independent contractors. severability and substitution of provisions. dispute resolution. applicable law and forum waiver of jury statute of limitations. no guarantee of franchisee success. existence of various forms of franchise agreements. franchise owner may not withhold payments. remedies are cumulative. interpretation. waiver. litigation expense. no third party beneficiaries. binding effect modification. entire agreement nature and scope construction. this agreement all exhibits attachments addendums and amendments constitute the entire understanding and agreement between the parties and there are no other oral or written understandings or agreements between us and you relating to the subject. nothing in this agreement or in any related agreement is intended to disclaim the representations we made in the disclosure document. nothing in this agreement is intended nor shall be deemed to confer any rights or remedies upon any person or lega. terminology. the term affiliate means any person who directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries controls is controlled by or is under common control with any person the term dollars means united states dollars and all amounts due under this agreement shall be paid in united states currency the use of the terms includes and including in any provision of this agreement followed by specific examples used shall not be construed to limit application of the provision to only the specific examples used the term person means any natural person corporation partnership trust other entity association or form of organization the term will and shall shall be synonymous and shall be mandatory and not discretionary unless otherwise specifically provided herein and any references to articles or sections refer to articles and sections in this agreement unless specified otherwise. counterparts. offerings. time. force majeure. plurals and captions. joint and several liability. trademark notice. no accord or satisfaction. article. acknowledgments and representations of franchisee. certain representations and warranties of franchisee. additional information respecting franchisee. acknowledgements of franchisee. article. submission of agreement personal acceptance of sections. and. b unit kflform gen fa transfer csc article. grant of franchise term system standards. franchise grant. location of the franchised business no exclusive territory or other rights. you must operate the franchised business only from the location including any catering services of cold stone creamery menu items you provide. you acknowledge that the cold stone creamery franchise granted under this agreement is non exclusive that. term of agreement. system standards. the operation and maintenance of your restaurant according to the system standards are essential to the well being and vitality of the system and to preserve the goodwill of the proprietary marks for us and for all other franchisees operating under th. article. selection of location construction and relocation. location selection procedures. lease and purchase approval. construction. signage. relocation. restricted use of restaurant location. not applicable. article. operations. commencing operations. supplies and promotional materials rollouts. fixtures furnishings and equipment. online presence. continuing working capital requirement. article. training assistance and start up materials. training program. employee training. additional programs continuing assistance. area representatives. confidential manual. computer systems debit and credit card processing. article. fees and deposits. not applicable. royalty fee and surcharge. advertising fee. cooperative advertising. not applicable. depository account payment procedures. lease review fee. lease guarantee fee. additional persons training fee. additional training fee. document administration fee. renewal franchise fee. transfer franchise fee. relocation fee. not applicable. annual meeting registration fee. late report interest late charge non sufficient funds fee breaching royalties draft draw charge. audit fees. data fee. pos help desk phone support maintenance service fee. new supplier approval fee. reserved. non participation fee. not applicable. through. not applicable. article. proprietary marks. ownership and right to use. covenants of franchise owners. limitations on franchisee use of proprietary marks. non exclusive license of proprietary marks. notification of infringement and claims. article. trade secrets and proprietary information. innovations. confidentiality agreement. article. relationship of the parties and indemnification. relationship of the parties. indemnification of franchisor. indemnification of franchisee. special power of attorney. article. operating standards and duties of franchise owner. compliance with system standards and confidential manual. authorized products and services. specifications and standards for supplies approved suppliers rollouts. compliance with legal requirements and good business practices. maintenance of insurance. management of the franchised business. inspections by franchisor. personal guaranty non disclosure and non competition agreement. not applicable. article. advertising and promotion. advertising by franchisor. advertising by franchisee. article. accounting procedures and reports. maintenance of records. audit by franchisor. article. transfer. prior consent of franchisor. advance notice of proposed terms and right of first refusal. requirement for consent to transfer. death or incapacity of individual franchisee change in entity. assignment by franchisor. restrictions on security interests and subfranchising. article. renewal a you must not then be in default under this agreement or any other agreement legal instrument or document with us or any of our affiliates and no event shall have occurred that with the giving of notice the passage of time or both would consti. you must be in complete compliance with the terms of this agreement including all financial obligations to us and the then current confidential manual. you must not have received more than three notices of default or breach of this agreement during its term nor more than two notices of default or breach during the five years immediately preceding the effective date of the proposed ren. you must have the existing right to maintain possession of the location or you must have secured and developed a suitable substitute location that meets our then current minimum site requirements such confirmation will be provided to you by us indiana you must sign a general release provided by us. you and we must execute all agreements legal instruments and other documents individually and collectively renewal documents then used by us in the renewal of franchises and then being required of new franchise owners in connection with the. the equipment fixtures and signage used in connection with the operation of the franchised business must either meet our then existing system specifications and standards or you must agree within a timeframe required by us to replace or refurbi. you agree to complete all remodeling and improvements as required by us and must upgrade the pos system to the then current required pos system within the time period specified by us and i you shall have paid to us the renewal franchise fee as required under section. article. default and termination. default termination. opportunity to cure. our right to take over management. remedies. effect of termination or expiration. a immediately pay to us or any affiliate of ours all sums owing from you to us or such affiliate including the royalty fee and advertising fee for any period prior to the date of termination the applicable early termination damages as defined indiana immediately cease to use in any manner whatsoever including in all advertising the proprietary marks any trade secrets any confidential information any benefits of the system or any part thereof any methods associated with the system any fo. immediately discontinue all advertising as a franchisee of the system and thereafter refrain from any advertising that would indicate that you are or ever were a franchisee or licensee of ours or otherwise were affiliated with us or the system. immediately take such steps as may be necessary or appropriate to. immediately take such action as may be required to cancel all fictitious or assumed names amend any entity name or dissolve any entity that contains any proprietary mark in whole or in part regardless of whether the entity name was authorized. comply with the confidentiality requirements and the covenant against competition in this agreement for the specified period. you acknowledge that you or if an entity your authorized representative has carefully reviewed the confidentiality re. maintain at a place made known to us all books records and reports required under this agreement for a period of not less than three years after the date of termination or expiration of this agreement to allow us to make a final inspection of. covenant not to compete conflicting interests. continuing obligations. remedies. early termination damages. article. notices article. construction and enforcement miscellaneous. independent contractors. severability and substitution of provisions. dispute resolution. applicable law and forum waiver of jury statute of limitations. no guarantee of franchisee success. existence of various forms of franchise agreements. franchise owner may not withhold payments. remedies are cumulative. interpretation. waiver. litigation expense. no third party beneficiaries. binding effect modification. entire agreement nature and scope construction. this agreement all exhibits attachments addendums and amendments constitute the entire understanding and agreement between the parties and there are no other oral or written understandings or agreements between us and you relating to the subject. nothing in this agreement or in any related agreement is intended to disclaim the representations we made in the disclosure document. nothing in this agreement is intended nor shall be deemed to confer any rights or remedies upon any person or lega. terminology. the term affiliate means any person who directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries controls is controlled by or is under common control with any person the term dollars means united states dollars and all amounts due under this agreement shall be paid in united states currency the use of the terms includes and including in any provision of this agreement followed by specific examples used shall not be construed to limit application of the provision to only the specific examples used the term person means any natural person corporation partnership trust other entity association or form of organization the term will and shall shall be synonymous and shall be mandatory and not discretionary unless otherwise specifically provided herein and any references to articles or sections refer to articles and sections in this agreement unless specified otherwise. counterparts. offerings. time. force majeure. plurals and captions. joint and several liability. trademark notice. no accord or satisfaction. article. acknowledgments and representations of franchisee. certain representations and warranties of franchisee. additional information respecting franchisee. acknowledgements of franchisee. article. submission of agreement personal acceptance of sections. and. county unit kflform gen guaranty of fa csc county gen north dakota and north carolina agreement csc non disclosure and non competition agreement non disclosure and non competition agreement d unit kflform gen collateral assignment not store csc east unit kflform gen kflform amd to fa nontrad csc east csc addendum to fdd rmcf item initial fees item other fees item estimated initial investment item franchisee obligations item franchisor assistance advertising computer systems and training item renewal termination transfer and dispute resolution item financial performance representations item outlets and franchisee information table of contents section viii. standard forms. rocky mountain chocolate factory word mark. rocky mountain chocolate factory and design and. all other trademarks and service marks that are included in the rmcf operating manual from time to time that are authorized for use in the franchised business with products offered under the cold stone creamery proprietary marks. folio unit kflform gen amendment to fa cobrand csc g gen gen ist release waiver kfl trainee signature printed name address home phone work phone h b unit kflform exhibit sba addendum cover page not nrg h unit gen sba addendum kflform example of drop down options example of fillable fields to be completed manually addendum to agreement change of ownership forced sale of assets covenants employment authorized representative of franchisor authorized representative of licensee a unit kflform gen required lease terms csc a csc.rmcf required lease terms b unit kflform gen lease guaranty acknowledgment csc county unit kflform gen exhibit lease review release state addendas for the state of california for the state of hawaii for the state of indiana for the state of maryland for the state of michigan for the state of minnesota for the state of north dakota for the state of new york for the state of rhode island for the state of south dakota for the state of virginia for the state of washington for the state of wisconsin d unit kflform gen sublease general csc sublease and guaranty of sublease store number d unit kflform gen sublease rpp csc sublease and guaranty of sublease franchisor or affiliate collects rent from franchisee and pays to landlord store number guaranty of sublease a unit kflform gen eft kfl county unit kflform csc exhibit p participation agreement cover page a unit kflform gen general release for renewal of fa csc b unit kflform gen consent to transfer without sbl csc recitals agreement b unit kflform gen consent to transfer with sbl csc recitals agreement a unit kflform gen exhibit state addenda to franchise docs for the state of california for the state of hawaii for the state of illinois for the state of indiana for the state of maryland for the state of minnesota for the state of north dakota for the state of new york for the state of rhode island for the state of south dakota for the state of virginia required by the state of washington for the state of wisconsin a a unit kflform gen exhibit toc manual cover page a b csc om ops manual toc pages b unit kflform gen exhibit list of franchise owners a unit kflform gen exhibit financial statements cover page a b mty food group incorporated fs b unit kflform gen exhibit performance guarantee cover page b b unit kflform gen exhibit performance guarantee kfl a unit kflform gen exhibit addendum for sale of company stores a kflform gen state effective dates exhibit b unit kflform gen exhibit fdd receipts